Professor: A. Selcuk Uluagac
University: Florida International University
URL: http://nweb.eng.fiu.edu/selcuk
Description: Selcuk Uluagac
Home
Education
Honors
Research Areas and Projects
Sponsors
Publications
Teaching
Software
Professional Activities
Student Advising, Mentoring, Outreach Activities
Contact
News..

Research positions in security and privacy available! Please click here for more information..

Biography

Dr. Selcuk Uluagac is is currently an Eminent Scholar Chaired Professor in the Knight Foundation School of Computing and Information Science at Florida International University, where he leads the Cyber-Physical Systems Security Lab (CSL), with an additional courtesy appointment in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. Before FIU, he was a member of the research faculty as a Senior Research Engineer in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) at the Georgia Institute of Technology and prior to Georgia Tech, he was a Senior Research Engineer at Symantec. Dr. Uluagac earned his Ph.D. with a concentration in cybersecurity from the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at The Georgia Institute of Technology. He also received a M.S. in Information Security from the School of Computer Science at The Georgia Institute of Technology and a M.S. from the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Carnegie Mellon University.

He is an expert in the areas of cybersecurity and privacy with an emphasis on their practical and applied aspects and teaches classes in these areas. His current work focuses on ransomware, forensics, IoT, CPS security topics. He has hundreds of research papers/studies/publications in cybersecurity and privacy in the most reputable venues such as USENIX Security, NDSS, IEEE TIFS.

In 2015, he received a Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Award from the US National Science Foundation (NSF), which is NSF’s most prestigious award in support of junior faculty who exemplify the role of teacher-scholars through outstanding research, excellent education and the integration of education and research within the context of the mission of their organizations. Also, in 2015 he was awarded a summer fellowship from the US Air Force Office of Sponsored Research (AFOSR)’s Summer Faculty Fellowship Program. In 2016, he received the Summer Faculty Fellowship from the University of Padova, Italy. He has also received other awards for the quality of his mentoring and research, including (1) FIU President’s Council Real Triumphs Faculty Award, 2023, (2) FIU Faculty Senate Research Excellence Award, 2023, (3) FIU Provost Office Top Scholar Award in Established Faculty with Significant Grants (STEM Category), 2023, (4) FIU Provost Office Top Scholar Award in Faculty with Notable Gains in Student Learning and Success (Sciences) Category, 2021, (5) FIU College of Engineering and Computing Faculty Award in Excellence in Research and Creative Activities Category, 2021, (6) FIU Eminent Scholar Chaired Associate Professor in the College of Engineering and Computing 2020. In 2021, he received Google’s Android Security and Privacy (ASPIRE) Research award and received a fellowship from the Sapienza University of Rome, Italy in 2022.

He is also an active member of IEEE (senior grade since 2011), ACM, and ASEE and a regular contributor to national panels and leading journals and conferences in the field. Dr. Uluagac has served on the program committees of top-tier security conferences such as IEEE S&P (Oakland), NDSS, USENIX Security, ACM WiSeC, IEEE CNS, ASIACCS, inter alia. He is the TPC Chair of the Security and ML Track at ACM CCS 2023, In 2022, he was the TPC Co-Chair of IEEE CNS Conference. He was the General Chair of ACM Conference on Security and Privacy in Wireless and Mobile Networks (ACM WiSec) in 2019. In 2018, he co-chaired the US National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)’s National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE) Annual Expo and Conference, which is one of the largest events in the cybersecurity education domain.

Currently, he serves on the editorial boards of IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security (Deputy Editor-in-Chief), IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, and Elsevier Computer Networks Journal. Prior to these, he was an associate editor at Elsevier Journal of Network and Computer Applications (JNCA) and network security lead area editor at IEEE Communications and Surveys and Tutorials.

He has been very active in external funding efforts during his tenure at FIU related to the security and privacy of Internet of Things and Cyber-Physical Systems areas. Specifically, his research was funded by US NSF, US Department of Energy, US Air Force Research Lab, US Department of Labor, Cyber Florida, Trend Micro, Microsoft, Google, and Cisco, inter alia.

He is very entrepreneurial and visionary with his research. So far, his research has resulted in 17 US patent disclosures (10 already awarded) with one licensed to a company recently. And, he is very active in the local and national community; his research covered by different media outlets (TV, online, published) numerous times.

| Copyright © 2023 by Selcuk Uluagac | Last update: Fri, 03 Nov 2023 21:10:10 -0400 | Maintained via Jekyll |

