Professor: Adam Wierman
University: California Institute of Technology
URL: http://www.cs.caltech.edu/~adamw
Description: Skip to content

Adam Wierman

Computer Scientist. Caltech Professor.

Home
About
Group
Research
Teaching
Book
Join
Twitter
Blog
Scholar

Adam Wierman’s research strives to make the networked systems that govern our world sustainable and resilient. His lab develops new mathematical tools in machine learning, optimization, control, and economics and applies these tools to design new algorithms and markets with provable guarantees that can be deployed in data centers, the electricity grid, transportation systems, and beyond.

For information on joining the lab as an undergraduate, graduate, or postdoc, see here.

Recent Talks
A Smarter Electricity Grid
Learning to Control Safety Critical Systems
Online Optimization & Energy
Algorithmic Challenges in Electricity Markets
How Clean is the Cloud?
Competitive Control via Online Optimization
Energy & Uncertainty
Online Scheduling Meets Queueing
Collaborators Talks
Independent Learning w/ Fnc. Approx. in Competitive RL
Towards (Environmentally) Responsible AI
Finite-time Analysis of Q-Learning
Robust Voltage Control with an Unknown Grid Topology
Data Providers Ruin Simple Mechanisms
The Privacy Paradox in Data Acquisition
Scalable RL for Multi-Agent Networked Systems
Pricing Flexibility in Electricity Markets

Check these out!
The world’s most flexible and sustainable data centers.
SustainGym is a suite of environments for testing AI algorithms on sustainability tasks/
More details. Order from Amazon today!
A talk introducing heavy tails in AI/ML from NeurIPS 2023
Join

I actively look for new graduate students and postdocs every year, especially at the intersection of learning and control and in the broad area of smart grid markets and control. Info about applying and reaching out to me is here.

I am also always looking for undergraduate researchers both for research during the year and as part of the SURF and WAVE programs. More info about how to apply and reach out to me is here.

Seminars at Caltech

If you’re at Caltech and want to learn more about research in (and related to) our group, there are a number of regular seminars you can join. The CMS departmental Keller colloquium is Mondays at 4pm, the Center for Social and Information Sciences (CSIS) has seminars Fridays at noon, and the Resnick Sustainability Institute has seminars Mondays at noon. Finally, my group has small informal seminars Thursdays at 4pm and all potential collaborators are welcome!

Office Hours

I keep office hours during the term on Tuesdays from 1-2pm PT. I am available during this time for discussions with my undergraduate advisees and for any students/postdocs who would like to meet. Typically, these meetings are held in my office (ANB 215) but, during periods when Caltech is virtual, please email me or my assistant (info below) for the zoom info. You can feel free to just drop in; however, emailing ahead of time to schedule a time is preferred.

Contact

California Institute of Technology
1200 E. California Boulevard
MC 305-16
Pasadena, CA 91125

215 Annenberg
(626) 395-6569

adamw@caltech.edu

Assistant

Jolene Brink
345 Annenberg
(626) 395-2813
jbrink@caltech.edu

Centers/Groups

RSRG, DOLCIT, CSIS, CMI, 
IST, RSI, CAST

Home
About
Group
Research
Teaching
Book
Join
Adam Wierman

