Professor: Adji B. Dieng
University: Princeton University
URL: https://www.cs.princeton.edu/people/profile/ad6725
Description: Skip to main content
CS Guide Directory Contact
Department of
COMPUTER SCIENCE
	
	
Undergraduate Program
Graduate Program
Courses
Research
People
Diversity & Outreach
About
Home People
Adji Bousso Dieng
Title/Position
Assistant Professor
Degree
Ph.D., Columbia University, 2020
 ad6725  (@cs.princeton.edu)
 (609) 258-5935
 406 Computer Science
Other Affiliations
CBE, HMEI, PMI
Research

Interests: Machine learning, Artificial Intelligence for Science (AI4Science)

Research Areas:

Computational Biology
Machine Learning
Natural Language Processing

Short Bio

I am an Assistant Professor of Computer Science at Princeton University where I lead Vertaix on research at the intersection of artificial intelligence and the natural sciences. I am affiliated with the High Meadows Environmental Institute (HMEI). I am also a Research Scientist at Google AI and the founder and President of the nonprofit The Africa I Know. I have been named an AI2050 Early Career Fellow by Schmidt Futures and the Annie T. Randall Innovator of 2022 for my research and advocacy by the American Statistical Association. I received my PhD from Columbia University where I was advised by David Blei and John Paisley. My doctoral work received many recognitions, including a Google PhD Fellowship in Machine Learning, a rising star in Machine Learning nomination by the University of Maryland, and a Savage Award from the International Society for Bayesian Analysis, for my doctoral thesis. I hail from Kaolack, Senegal.

Website: vertaix.princeton.edu

Selected Publications

A full list of publications is available here.

Navigation
 Faculty
 Researchers
 Technical Staff
 Administrative Staff
 Graduate Students
 Undergraduate Students
 Graduate Alumni
 Events
7
Aug
Srikar Kasi FPO (CS 301 & Zoom)
Full calendar and archive
 News
JULY 15TH, 2024
Dylan Epstein-Gross named Goldwater Scholar
JUNE 17TH, 2024
Swarm Garden brings robotic flowers to life
JUNE 17TH, 2024
Fernando Avilés-García's senior thesis uses artificial intelligence to analyze Dante
News archive
Follow us:   

© 2024 The Trustees of Princeton University.

Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Site Map

