Professor: Alan Mislove
University: Northeastern University
URL: http://www.ccs.neu.edu/home/amislove
Description: alan mislove
home
research 
service
teaching 
publications

I'm a Professor of Computer Science at Northeastern University.

I'm also the Senior Associate Dean for Academic Affairs.

UPDATES
CONTACT

amislove@ccs.neu.edu

177 Huntington Ave
Office 409
Khoury College of Computer Sciences
Northeastern University
Boston, MA 02115
Map Directions

Core Faculty, Cybersecurity and Privacy Institute
Affiliated Faculty, Global Resilience Institute

GPG public key
Bio
CV
Google Scholar

RESEARCH

My research interests revolve around understanding the security and privacy implications of emerging online services. We're interested in problems including algorithm auditing of large-scale systems, better understanding the (in)security of the SSL ecosystem, and how to better design cloud computing systems to meet end users' needs.

I work in the Networked Systems Research Group at Northeastern, which includes my collaborators Christo Wilson and Dave Choffnes, as well as a group of very talented students.

Our research is generously funded by the National Science Foundation, the Army Reseach Office, Narus, Google, the Data Transparency Lab, and Amazon Web Services.

SERVICE

I have served on the program committees of many conferences, including (most recently) NSDI'15, IMC'15, WWW'16, EuroSys'14, and COSN'15. I was also the Social Networks Track co-Chair for WWW'15, and am a Senior Program Committee Member for ICWSM'16.

I have also served on numerous NSF panels and on the Data Transparency Lab 2015 grant selection committee.

TEACHING

I've taught a number of courses, including CS 2500 Fundamentals of Computer Science 1, CS3700 Networks and Distributed Systems (and its precursor CS3600 Systems and Networks), CS4700/CS5700 Fundamentals of Computer Networks, CS5600 Computer Systems, and CS5750/IS4700 Social Computing.

ADVISING

I'm thrilled to have the opportunity to work with a number of talented students, postdocs, and research scientists. These include my current research scientist Piotr Sapieżyński, as well as Ph.D. students Avijit Ghosh, Muhammad Ali, Lulu Kiffer (co-advised with Rajmohan Rajaraman), and Giridhari Venkatadri.

I also had the pleasure of advising Taejoong Chung (now at Virginia Tech), Bimal Viswanath (co-advised with Krishna P. Gummadi; now at Virgina Tech), Ancsa Hannák (co-advised with David Lazer; now at University of Zurich), Yabing Liu (now at Twitter), Liang Zhang (now at Google), and Arash Molavi Kakhki (co-advised with Dave Choffnes; now at ThousandEyes).

DIVERSIONS

I'm a sucker for nice data visualizations. I've worked on a few using Twitter data, including a visualization of the U.S. mood, and a a map of over 250 million geo-tags.

