Professor: Albert M. Lai
University: Washington University in St. Louis
URL: https://i2db.wustl.edu/people/albert-lai
Description: Skip to content
Skip to search
Skip to footer

INSTITUTE FOR

Informatics, Data Science & Biostatistics

ABOUT
 
PEOPLE
 
EDUCATION
 
CONSULTATION & SERVICES
 
NEWS
 
EVENTS
 
CONNECT
 
GOVERNANCE
Open Search
Albert M. Lai, PhD, FACMI, FAMIA

Deputy Director, Institute for Informatics, Data Science and Biostatistics (I2DB)
Chief Research Information Officer, School of Medicine
Professor of Medicine, Division of General Medical Sciences
Professor of Computer Science and Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science

Email:
amlai@wustl.edu
Twitter
LinkedIn

A pioneer in the field of biomedical informatics, Albert M. Lai, PhD, is the chief research information officer (CRIO) for Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, where he is also the deputy director of the Institute for Informatics, Data Science and Biostatistics (I2DB), a professor of medicine in the Division of General Medical Sciences, and a professor of computer science and engineering in the School of Engineering and Applied Science.

He was most recently tapped to become deputy faculty lead for WashU Digital Transformation, a product of WashU’s new university-wide strategic plan, and its new Digital Intelligence and Innovation (DI2) Accelerator. This role has included empowering faculty, staff and students to use cutting-edge generative AI tools both rapidly and responsibly by standing up a secure WashU ChatGPT sandbox for use with sensitive clinical, student and operational data.

In his role as the medical school’s CRIO, he leads School of Medicine data warehousing and informatics core services, which provide data brokerage and other resources that are accelerating the speed of discovery and innovation for researchers across the institution and beyond. Dr. Lai specializes in the development of research informatics infrastructure and is well-recognized in the fields of clinical research informatics and consumer health informatics. His recent research has focused on the use of large language models and natural language processing to extract complex clinical phenotypes.

View publications and research interests on Research Profiles »

Institute for Informatics, Data Science & Biostatistics

Washington University School of Medicine

660 S. Euclid Ave.

Campus Box 8132

Saint Louis, MO 63110

I2DB-admin@wustl.edu

LinkedIn
 
Twitter

©2024 Washington University in St. Louis

