Professor: Alessandro Vespignani
University: Northeastern University
URL: http://www.mobs-lab.org/alessandro-vespignani.html
Description: ABOUT
PROJECTS
PUBLICATIONS
PEOPLE
MEDIA
CONTACT
PEOPLE

	
Alessandro Vespignani
MOBS Lab Director
​Sternberg Distinguished University Professor
Khoury College of Computer Sciences, College of Science, 
Bouvé College of Health Sciences, Northeastern University 
﻿email Alex
@alexvespi
CV
​​Google Scholar Citations
	
BIOGRAPHY
Prof. Vespignani received his undergraduate degree and Ph.D., both in physics and both from the University of Rome “La Sapienza,” in 1990 and 1994 respectively. He completed his postdoctoral research at Yale University and Leiden University. Prof. Vespignani worked at the International Center for Theoretical Physics (UNESCO) in Trieste and at the University of Paris-Sud in France as a member of the National Council for Scientific Research (CNRS) before moving to Indiana University in 2004. Before joining Northeastern University Vespignani was J.H.Rudy Professor of Informatics and Computing at Indiana University and serving as the Director of the Center for Complex Networks and Systems Research and the Associate Director of the Pervasive Technology Institute. Vespignani is elected fellow of the American Physical Society, member of the Academy of Europe, and fellow of the Institute for Quantitative Social Sciences at Harvard University. He has received the Honorary Doctorate from the Technical University of Delft, the Netherlands,  and the 2016 Aspen institute Italia award. He is serving in the board/leadership of a variety of professional association and journals and the Institute for Scientific Interchange Foundation.

Vespignani has worked in a number of areas of non-equilibrium particle systems, statistical physics and computational sciences, including characterization of non-equilibrium phase transitions, fractal growth and self-organized criticality. Recently Vespignani’s research activity focuses on the interdisciplinary application of statistical and numerical simulation methods in the analysis of epidemic and spreading phenomena and the study of biological, social and technological networks. For several years he has been working on the characterization and modeling of the Internet, the WWW and large-scale information networks. He is now focusing his research activity in modeling the spatial spread of epidemics, including the realistic and data-driven computational modeling of emerging infectious diseases, the resilience of complex networks and the behavior of techno-social systems.

Vespignani has published 180+ peer reviewed papers in top rated scientific journals, including Nature, Science and PNAS that have accrued more than  80,000 citations according to the Google Scholar database. He is author, together with Romualdo Pastor-Satorras, of the book Evolution and Structure of the Internet. Together with Alain Barrat and Marc Barthelemy he has published in 2008 the monograph Dynamical Processes on Complex Networks. In 2019 he has published for Springer “Charting the Next Pandemic”, with A.Pastore y Piontti, N.Perra, L.Rossi & N. Samay.
AWARDS AND HONORS
Knight of the Order of the Star of Italy, Presidency of the Italian Republic, 2020

Euler Award, The Network Science Society, 2020
John Graunt award for extraordinary achievements in one of the population sciences, Radboud Institute for Health Sciences, The Netherlands, 2018.
Senior Scientific award for outstanding contributions to Complex Systems & Network sciences, Complex Systems Society, 2018.
Elected Fellow, Network Science Society, 2018.
Doctorate Honoris Causa, Delft Technical University, The Netherlands (January 13, 2017)
2016 Aspen Institute Italia Award for scientific research and collaboration between Italy and the United States for the research on the “Spatiotemporal spread of the 2014 outbreak of Ebola virus disease in Liberia and the effectiveness of non-pharmaceutical intervention: a computational modelling analysis.”
2015 Northeastern University Excellence in Research and Creative Activity Award.
President elected of the Complex Systems Society (2012 - 2015)
Member of the Academy of Europe, section Physics and Engineering (2011).
Sternberg Family Endowed Chair, Northeastern University (2011).
Top cited article 2005-2010 award by the Theoretical Computer Science journal, Elsevier.
Elected Fellow of the American Physical Society (2008).
Founding director of the Center for Complex Networks and Systems Research, Indiana University (2008).
James H. Rudy Endowed Chair, Indiana University  (2008).
Invited participant and tutorial presenter at the National Academies Keck Futures Initiative (NAKFI) on complexity, November 13-15 2008, Irvine CA.
Organizational Leadership Award, Global Information Technology Management Association, June 2007.
FLAD visiting Professor and associated member, Computational Biology Collaboratorium, Instituto Gulbenkian de Ciencia (IGC), Lisbon, Portugal.
Plenary speaker STATPHYS 23, the 23rd International Conference on Statistical Physics of the International Union for Pure and Applied Physics (IUPAP), July 9-13, 2007.
Invited lecturer National Academy of Engineering, 2005 U.S. Frontiers of Engineering Symposium.
Marie Curie Fellow (1995-1997), the Human and Capital mobility program of the European Economic Community.​
MEMBERSHIPS AND BOARDS
Editor in Chief EPJ Data Science, Springer (2012 - 2017).
Editorial Board Scientific Reports, Nature Publishing Group (2011 - present ). 
Editorial Board PLOS One, Public Library of Science (2010 – present).
Editorial Board of Mathematical Biosciences, Elsevier (2010- 2012).
Editorial Board of Journal of Computational Sciences, Elsevier (2009 – 2013).
Editorial Board of European Physical Journal B, Springer Verlag (2006 – 2011).
Editorial Board of Journal of Statistical Mechanics, IOP London, UK (2002 – 2011).​
	
	
	
Northeastern University
GLEAMproject.org
Complex Networks Collaboratory


 Copyright © 2021 MOBS Lab   |  177 Huntington Ave, 10th Floor, Boston MA 02115
POWERED BY 
Create your own unique website with customizable templates.
Get Started

