Professor: Alexander G. Gray
University: Georgia Institute of Technology
URL: http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~agray
Description: 

		
Alexander GRAY

	Machine learning, statistics, and data mining
	Computational mathematics for massive datasets
	Applications: computational science and engineering
	After completing Bachelor's degrees in Applied Mathematics (concentration in Computational Statistics) and Computer Science from UC Berkeley, spending summers at the Santa Fe Institute and Los Alamos National Laboratory, among other places, I worked for 6 years in the Machine Learning Systems Group of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. I completed my PhD on 4/29/03 in Computer Science after 3.6 years at Carnegie Mellon University, advised by Prof. Andrew Moore and I'm currently a Postdoctoral Fellow in the Robotics Institute, but starting in the fall I'll be an Assistant Professor at Georgia Tech.

	
	
	
	


agray @ cs.cmu.edu
3128 Newell-Simon Hall
(412) 268-8014
C.V. [pdf] [ps]		
My work focuses on developing the new statistical and computational principles demanded by next-generation challenges in data analysis and autonomy. I develop new methods directly driven by, informed by, and validated by hard real problems, often by bridging technical intuitions or mathematical concepts from distant fields and perspectives. Two of the main challenges of modern computational science which keep me awake at night are massive datasets and various curses of dimensionality. I have been concerned with computational strategies for dealing with the fundamental summations, integrals, and maximizations at the root of a wide variety of statistics and machine learning methods. My most recent research, in progress, is about alternative statistical theory for certain old problems. A long-term target is to nail down enough powerful and general statistical and computational foundational primitives to achieve automatic data analysis and data-driven control, a bottom-up path to fully autonomous systems.
	
			

Generalized N-body Methods

	Fast kernel density estimation
	Fast n-point correlation functions
	Fast all-nearest-neighbors
	Fast Gaussian process regression
	Fast nonparametric Bayes classification
	
		
	
Computational Astrophysics, Cosmology, Astronomy

	Evidence for dark energy
	The origin of galaxies
	Quasar mapping
	Large-scale structure of the universe
	Galaxy morphologies and clusters



	
Computational Chemistry, Drug Discovery, Biology

	Molecule ranking for virtual screening
	Microarray data analysis
		

Adaptive Monte Carlo Methods

	Multi-tree Monte Carlo
	High-dimensional integration without Markov chains
	


Proximity Search

	The Proximity Project
	Fast nearest-neighbor classification
	Fast approximate nearest-neighbor
	Tutorial: Data Structures for Fast Statistics


		

Advanced Systems

	Autonomous planetary science by rover teams
	Efficient computer systems
		
Derivation of Learning Algorithms

	Automatic derivation of new EM algorithms

	
Other pursuits...

