Professor: Alexis Palmer
University: University of Colorado Boulder
URL: https://www.colorado.edu/cs/alexis-palmer
Description: Skip to Content

Search
Computer Science
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE
Main menu
Home
Academics
Research
People
News & Events
Admissions
Inclusion
Secondary Menu
StudentsEngage with UsFaculty/Staff Resources
Alexis Palmer
Assistant Professor
LINGUISTICS
 alexis.palmer@colorado.edu
 303-735-0418

Office: LBB 128

Dr. Palmer is an expert in computational discourse and semantics; computational linguistics for low-resource languages and language documentation; discourse structure and coherence, and modes of discourse and social analytics, including automated detection of offensive language in social media. She received her PhD from UT Austin in 2009, has held a number of prestigious post docs and research positions in Germany (including positions at the Institute for Computational Linguistics in Heidelberg and the Institut für Deutsche Sprache in Mannheim). Until her move to CU in 2021, she was an assistant professor at the University of North Texas, Denton. Dr. Palmer brings a prestigious National Science Foundation CAREER grant with her to CU. In this project, she is working on cross-linguistic methods for better development of language processing tools for low-resource languages. The project is called FOLTA (From One Language to Another). She has also recently become interested in the question of how we can make the outcomes of linguistic documentation more useable and accessible, particularly to support development of pedagogical materials for a language. 

Facebook
 
Twitter
 
LinkedIn
 
Instagram
 
YouTube

Apply  Visit  Give

Departments
Ann and H.J. Smead Aerospace Engineering Sciences
Chemical & Biological Engineering
Civil, Environmental & Architectural Engineering
Computer Science
Electrical, Computer & Energy Engineering
Paul M. Rady Mechanical Engineering
Programs
Applied Mathematics
Biomedical Engineering
Creative Technology & Design
Engineering Education
Engineering Management
Engineering Physics
Integrated Design Engineering
Environmental Engineering
Materials Science & Engineering
Robotics
Affiliates & Partners
ATLAS Institute
BOLD Center
Colorado Mesa University
Colorado Space Grant Consortium
Discovery Learning
Engineering Honors
Engineering Leadership
Entrepreneurship

 

Herbst Program for Engineering, Ethics & Society
Idea Forge
Integrated Teaching and Learning
Global Engineering
Mortenson Center for Global Engineering
National Center for Women & Information Technology
Western Colorado University
Footer menu
About
Admissions
Contact Us
Jobs
Funding Opportunities
Accreditation
Strategic Vision
Computer Science

1111 Engineering Drive
ECOT 717, 430 UCB
Boulder, CO 80309-0430 USA
Phone: 303-492-7514
Contact Us by Email
Fax: 303-492-2844   
GPS Coordinates 40.006387, -105.261582

College of Engineering & Applied Science
Phone: 303-492-5071
Email: cueng@colorado.edu

Connect with CU Engineering
Facebook
 
Twitter
 
YouTube
 
LinkedIn
 
Instagram

University of Colorado Boulder
© Regents of the University of Colorado
Privacy • Legal & Trademarks • Campus Map

