Professor: Alexandr Andoni
University: Columbia University
URL: http://datascience.columbia.edu/alex-andoni
Description: Faculty Students Alumni Events Data Science Day Industry Work with Us Apply Contact Us Giving
About 
 
Education 
 
Research 
 
Outreach 
 
Diversity 
 
People 
 
News and Insights 
 
 Faculty
 
Alexandr Andoni
The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science
Associate Professor of Computer Science
 DSI Member
 aa3815@columbia.edu
 http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~andoni/
Center Affiliations

Foundations of Data Science
Affiliated Member

Alexandr Andoni is an Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Science with a broad interest in algorithmic foundations of massive data. His particular research interests include sublinear algorithms (streaming and property testing), high-dimensional computational geometry, metric embeddings, and machine learning.

Professor Andoni graduated from MIT in 2009, under the supervision of Professor Piotr Indyk. His Ph.D. thesis was on the “Nearest Neighbor Search: the Old, the New, and the Impossible”. In 2009–2010, he was a postdoc at the Center for Computational Intractability at Princeton, and a visitor at NYU and IAS. He was also a researcher at Microsoft Research Silicon Valley lab, from 2010 until its closure in 2014. Afterwards, he was a visiting scientist at the Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing at UC Berkeley.

Newsletter
Stay informed. Sign up for our newsletter.
First Name 
Last Name 
Email Address 
Organization 
Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, research, and more.
SUBMIT
Questions? Email:  datascience@columbia.edu.
Northwest Corner, 550 W 120th St
#1401, New York, NY 10027
(212) 854-5660
About
Home
Data for Good
Work with Us
Donate
Contact Us
News
People
Education
M.S. in Data Science
Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science
Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences
Executive Education
DSI Scholars
Student Services
Alumni Services
Columbia Data Science Society
Data Science Education Across Columbia
Research Centers
Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science
Cybersecurity
Data, Media and Society
Financial and Business Analytics
Foundations of Data Science
Health Analytics
Sense, Collect and Move Data
Smart Cities
Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency
Focus Areas
Foundations of Data Science
Health Care
Climate
Business and Finance
Social Justice
Working Groups
Computational Social Science
Materials Discovery Analytics
Education
Outreach
Events
Industry Affiliates Program
Campus Connections
Entrepreneurship
Columbia University Terms Privacy
© The Data Science Institute at Columbia University Created by Constructive

