Professor: Alex Gittens
University: Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
URL: http://www.cs.rpi.edu/~gittea
Description: about
(current)
publications
teaching
group
Alex Gittens

Computer Science Department at RPI.

Lally Management Building, Office 316

 

110 8th St

 

Troy, NY 12180

I am an assistant professor, with one foot in the world of applied mathematics and the other in the machine learning world. Before joining RPI, I earned my PhD in applied and computational mathematics at CalTech, was a member of the machine learning research group at eBay, and then a postdoctoral fellow in the AMPLab at UC Berkeley and a member of the International Computer Science Institute.

My passion is designing algorithms with provable performance guarantees. My current research interests include tensor factorization, various aspects of trustworthy machine learning, and applications of randomized numerical linear algebra to large-scale machine learning.

selected publications
Simple Disentanglement of Style and Content in Visual Representations
Lilian Ngweta, Subha Maity, Alex Gittens, and 2 more authors
In International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML 2023, 2023
Deception by Omission: Using Adversarial Missingness to Poison Causal Structure Learning
Deniz Koyuncu, Alex Gittens, Bülent Yener, and 1 more author
In Proceedings of the 29th ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, KDD 2023, 2023
An Adversarial Perspective on Accuracy, Robustness, Fairness, and Privacy: Multilateral-Tradeoffs in Trustworthy ML
Alex Gittens, Bülent Yener, and Moti Yung
IEEE Access, 2022
Adaptive Sketching for Fast and Convergent Canonical Polyadic Decomposition
Alex Gittens, Kareem S. Aggour, and Bülent Yener
In Proceedings of the 37th International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML 2020, 2020
NoisyCUR: An Algorithm for Two-Cost Budgeted Matrix Completion
Dong Hu, Alex Gittens, and Malik Magdon-Ismail
In Machine Learning and Knowledge Discovery in Databases - European Conference, ECML PKDD 2020, 2020
     
Email is best to contact me.
© Copyright 2024 Alex Gittens. Powered by Jekyll with al-folio theme. Last updated: February 05, 2024.

