Professor: Ali Jannesari
University: Iowa State University
URL: https://www.cs.iastate.edu/swapp/people/ali-jannesari
Description: Skip to main content
iastate.edu
Index
Directory
Maps
Safety
Sign Ons
Software Analytics and Pervasive Parallelism Lab
Main navigation
About
Research
Publications
People
News
Teaching
Contact
Ali Jannesari
Position
Director of the Laboratory
Associate Professor
Ali Jannesari is an Associate Professor and the director of the Laboratory for Software Analytics and Pervasive Parallelism (SwAPP) at the Department of Computer Science of Iowa State University. He primarily works at the intersection of high-performance computing (HPC) and data science (AI) and investigates analytical methods and parallel computing to advance state of the art in building efficient and reliable software of in-demand areas such as data science and high-performance computing (HPC).

Prior to joining the faculty at ISU, he was a Senior Research Fellow at the University of California, Berkeley. During his time in Germany, he led the Multicore Programming Group at the Technical University of Darmstadt and was a junior research group leader at RWTH Aachen University. He also worked as a PostDoc fellow at the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT) and the Bosch Research Center in Munich. Dr. Jannesari holds a Habilitation Degree from the Technical University of Darmstadt and received his Ph.D. in computer science from the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology. He’s a member of the IEEE Computer Society and ACM.
Contact Info
110 Atanasoff
2434 Osborn Dr.
Ames, IA 50011
Email
jannesar@iastate.edu
Phone
515-294-6427
Social Media and Websites
Publications
Homepage
Education
Habilitation, Computer Science, Technical University of Darmstadt, Germany, 2016
Ph.D. Computer Science, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, Germany, 2010
M.S. Computer Science, University of Stuttgart, Germany, 2005
More Information

Areas of Expertise: High-Performance Computing (HPC), Machine Learning, Parallel Computing, Software Analytics

Associates
Department of Computer Science
Dr. Ali Jannesari
Associate Professor
Director of Software Analytics and Pervasive Parallelism (SwAPP) Lab

110 Atanasoff
2434 Osborn Dr
Ames IA 50011-1090
jannesari@iastate.edu
Phone: +1 515-294-6427
Copyright Information

Copyright © 2024
Iowa State University
of Science and Technology
All rights reserved.

Legal and Privacy Links
Non-discrimination Policy
Privacy Policy
Digital Access & Accessibility
Consumer Information

