Professor: Alyson K. Fletcher
University: Univ. of California - Los Angeles
URL: http://www.stat.ucla.edu/~akfletcher
Description: Home
Teaching
Research
Publications/Talks
CV
	
Alyson "Allie" Fletcher

Assistant Professor

University of California, Los Angeles

Depts of Statistics, Mathematics, Computer Science,  & EE




Affiliated Research Scientist

Redwood Center for Theoretical Neuroscience

Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute,

University of California, Berkeley



Video
Check out my theory matters in neuroscience video here!



News


Abstract submission open for CCN, the new annual
Cognitive Computational Neuroscience conference


Check out our amazing CCN invited speakers, including Yann LeCun, Yoshua Bengio, Josh Tenenbaum, Nicole Rust, and more!


ONR and NSF grants awarded for CCN


Attend our two day NIPS 2016 workshop in Barcelona!
Brains and Bits: Neuroscience meets Machine Learning


Allie invited as speaker to Workshop on Statistical physics, Learning, Inference and Networks" in Les Houches


Allie invited to speak at Exploring the Interface of Statistical Mechanics and Machine Learning



On the Program Committee of 2017 COSYNE



Joined the UCLA Department of Computer Science!


Konrad Kording and I are organizing a short course on Machine Learning and Data Science for Neuroscientists at Society for Neuroscience (SfN) 2016 in November.


Two IT Transactions papers accepted in one day


Parthe Pandit and Melika Emami joined the group!



Our paper on "Iterative Reconstruction of Rank-One Matrices in Noise" was accepted for publication in the IMA.



Robert, Mojtaba and my paper on "Neural Mass spatio-temporal modeling from high-density electrode array recordings" with Michael Trumpis, Michele Insanally, Jonathan Viventi, and Robert Froemke, was accepted to COSYNE 2016.



My group and I have moved to UCLA! I will be joining the Department of Statistics!And the Departments of Mathematics and Electrical Engineering.


Please apply to UCLA if you want to work with me as a PhD student. I am taking both new students and looking for postdocs.


Our NIPS 2015 Workshop on Statistical Methods for Understanding Neural Systems was well attended!


Invited to speak at the Silicon Valley IEEE SP Society on November 5th!


Awarded ONR research grant for State Estimation of Generalized Linear Dynamical Networks. Thank you.


Robert Sumner and Mojtaba Sahraee join our group



Bio

Allie Fletcher joined UC Santa Cruz as an Assistant Professor in Fall 2012. She was awarded the NSF CAREER award in January, 2013. She was previously a UC President's Postdoctoral Fellow, a Henry Luce Foundation Claire Boothe Luce Fellow and won the UC Berkeley EECS Eugene Lawler award. She received the Ph.D. and M.S. degrees in electrical engineering, and the M.S. degree in mathematics, all from the University of California, Berkeley. She obtained the B.S. degree in mathematics and physics from the University of Iowa. Her research interests include Bayesian estimation, statistical signal processing, machine learning, and information theory with a particular interest in inference problems in neuroscience and computational models of the brain.












Contact
	

UCLA, Dept. Statistics

8125 Mathematical Sciences Building

Los Angeles, CA 90095-1554

	

Office: 8105E Math Sciences Bldg.

Email: akfletcher@ucla.edu

web development by bryant smith

