Professor: Amarda Shehu
University: George Mason University
URL: https://cs.gmu.edu/~ashehu
Description: Welcome to the Shehu Laboratory
Home
Publications
Research
Tools
Funding
Teaching
Service
Members
Meetings
 
Research in the Shehu Lab

Our laboratory bridges two worlds. We advance foundational and use-inspired research in Artificial Intelligence. What drives us is a deep passion to push the barriers of our understanding of the physical and biological world.


In all we do we ask two questions: how are we advancing foundational research; what scientific breakthroughs can we make with this foundational research? In answering these questions, we bridge worlds and communities.


Over the years, we have contributed novel stochastic optimization algorithms for exploring high-dimensional, non-linear variable spaces and modeling the complex, spatio-temporal dynamics of physical and biological systems. We continue to make contributions in both foundational and use-inspired AI to advance inquiry in diverse disciplines, from the life sciences to engineering. It is real-world, complex, wicked problems that prompt us to design novel AI and ML frameworks and algorithms. This is nowadays abbreviated as AI4Sience.


Highlights of our recent work include optimization for deep learning, deep generative (latent variable) models in generative AI for modeling small and large molecules, and advancing large language models for bio & health informatics. Generative AI for modeling complex dynamic systems is a main thrust of research in our lab.


Lab Photos and Fun Activities
Fardina becomes Dr. Alam
Irina Defends Ph.D.
Parastoo becomes Dr. Kamranfar
Taseef becomes Dr. Rahman
All Masked-Up Lab Meeting
Kevin defends Ph.D.
COS and VSE 2014 Undergraduate Events
Mason 2014 Emerging Awardees Event
BCB 2014
Brian defends PhD
BICoB 2013
BCB 2013
Uday defends PhD
BIBM and CSBW 2012
BIBM and CSBW 2011
Chantilly Visit
Irina Defends Ph.D.
Students
Current Students
Past Students

Copyright (c) 2009 Amarda Shehu. All rights reserved.

Designed by Brian Olson

