Professor: Amélie Marian
University: Rutgers University
URL: https://www.cs.rutgers.edu/~amelie
Description: Skip to content
AMÉLIE MARIAN
Department of Computer Science
HOME
RESEARCH
PUBLICATIONS
TEACHING
CV
NEWS
Amélie Marian

Associate Professor

Department of Computer Science
CoRE 324, Busch Campus

amelie.marian@rutgers.edu




Mailing Address: CS Dept, Rutgers University
                               110 Frelinghuysen Rd
                               Piscataway, NJ 08854
Office Tel: +1 848 445 8324

My main research interests are in Data Management and Algorithms, specifically Accountability and Transparency of Algorithms for Decision-Making, Explainable Rankings, Personal Information Management, Data Integration, and Data Corroboration. 

BIO

Amélie Marian is an Associate Professor in the Computer Science Department at Rutgers University. Her research interests are in Explainable Rankings, Accountability of Decision-making Systems, Personal Digital Traces, and Data Integration. Amélie received her Ph.D. in Computer Science from Columbia University in 2005. From March 1999 to August 2000, Amélie was a member of the VERSO project at INRIA-Rocquencourt. She received B.S. and M.S. degrees from Université Paris Dauphine, France in 1998 and 1999, respectively. She is the recipient of a Microsoft Live Labs Award (2006), three Google Research Awards (2008, 2010, and 2012) and an NSF CAREER award (2009).

RESEARCH

Here are some current research projects. A complete list of research projects can be found on the Research page.

YourDigitalSelf

Connecting, Searching, and Understanding your Personal Digital Traces

Explainable Rankings

Towards Explainable and Transparent Ranking Functions

Decentralized Collaborative Filtering

Privacy-aware Personal Recommendations

NEWS
CONFERENCES
December 2023: “Explainable disparity compensation for efficient fair ranking,” With Abraham Gale accepted for publication at ICDE’24

Our paper on using bonus points to make ranking results more diverse and fair: “Explainable disparity compensation for efficient fair ranking,” was accepted at ICDE’24

SOCIAL MEDIA
September 2023: Reporting Ranked Choice Voting Election Results with Outstanding Ballots

To improve transparency in the reporting of RCV election results, Alborz Jelvani, a Rutgers CS graduate student, and I presented an algorithm to process partial results of RCV races without …

CONFERENCES
April 2023: “Algorithmic Transparency and Accountability through Crowdsourcing: A Study of the NYC School Admission Lottery” accepted for publication at FAccT’23

My paper: “Algorithmic Transparency and Accountability through Crowdsourcing: A Study of the NYC School Admission Lottery” was accepted at FAccT’23

For problems or questions about this site, please contact help@cs.rutgers.edu

Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form.

Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, an equal opportunity, affirmative action institution. All rights reserved.

