Professor: Anantharaman Kalyanaraman
University: Washington State University
URL: http://www.eecs.wsu.edu/~ananth
Description:     
About
Research
Publications
People
Software
Teaching
Prospective Students
Contact
Ananth Kalyanaraman

	
Professor and Interim Director

Boeing Centennial Chair in Computer Science
School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Pullman, WA 99164
(509) 335-6760
Email: a_n_a_n_t_h@w_s_u.e_d_u   // remove '_' before use

	



Brief biography:

Ananth Kalyanaraman is a Professor and Boeing Centennial Chair in Computer Science at the School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Washington State University in Pullman. He is the Director of the NSF-USDA NIFA funded AgAID AI Institute for Transforming Workforce and Decision Support in agriculture. He serves as the Associate Director for the School of  EECS, and also holds a joint appointment at Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL). He holds affiliate faculty positions at the Molecular Plant Sciences Graduate Program and the Paul G. Allen School for Global Health.  Ananth received his bachelors from Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology in Nagpur, India (B.E. in Computer Science and Engineering, 1998); and subsequently M.S. (Computer Science, 2002) and Ph.D. (Computer Engineering, 2006) from Iowa State University.


Ananth works at the intersection of parallel computing, graph analytics, and bioinformatics/computational biology. His focus is on developing algorithms and software for scalable analysis of large-scale data from various scientific domains and particularly agriculture, plant and life sciences. Research in his lab has been supported by various funding sources including the National Science Foundation (NSF), U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Ananth is a recipient of U.S. Department of Energy Early Career Research Award, and his student-led research works have received multiple conference best paper awards and a prestigious graph challenge award. Ananth serves/has served on the editorial boards of several reputed journals (including TPDS, TCBB, JPDC, ParCo), and also regularly serves in various capacities including organizational capacities at various conferences in the areas of parallel processing and bioinformatics. He is currently serving as a Vice-Chair for the IEEE Technical Committee on Parallel Programming (TCPP).   Ananth is a senior member of IEEE, and a member of ACM and SIAM.

Additional details:


You can download my comprehensive CV here.


I tweet occasionally (although on random topics) and you can follow me @ananth_k on Twitter.


@AgAID_Institute #parallelcomputing #compbio #hpc #datascience #graphanalytics

I am always looking for highly motivated graduate students to join my group. If you are a prospective graduate student, please visit the Prospective Students page.





