Professor: Andrew McGregor 0001
University: University of Massachusetts Amherst
URL: http://people.cs.umass.edu/~mcgregor
Description: Home
Papers
Teaching
Blog
Hi, I'm a Professor in the College of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. I'm a member of the Theory Group and my research is in algorithms and complexity. Specific topics of interest include processing massive data sets and data streams, clustering, approximation algorithms, coding and information theory. Here are my research papers.

Prior to UMass, I spent a great couple of years at Microsoft Research (Silicon Valley) and the Information Theory and Applications Center at UCSD. In 2007, I received my Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania. During graduate school, I spent a summer at DIMACS and three summers at the Fundamental Maths Department at Bell Labs. In the dim and distant past, I received the Certificate of Advanced Study in Mathematics (2001) and a B.A. in Mathematics (2000) from the University of Cambridge.

Here's text of a short bio, a photo, and a cv.

Since you're here, maybe you'd like to...

get in contact:
Mail: College of Information and Computer Sciences, 140 Governor's Drive, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA 01003-9264
Office: Room 334, 140 Governor's Drive (Campus Map and Area Map)
Email: mcgregor at cs.umass.edu
submit a paper to a conference where I'm on the PC:
SODA 2023, PODS 2023, ICDT 2022, and see cv for previous program committees.
check out material for a tutorials on graph streaming:
Sampling, Sketching, Streaming, Small-Space Optimization: Algorithmic Approaches for Analyzing Large Graphs, KDD (2018). Related tutorials given at ICML (2016) and VLDB (2012).
become a Ph.D. student at UMass and work in my group:
Great! I like the research I do (admittedly I'm biased) but see my papers to make sure you would too. I'm interested in most areas of theory.
A strong math background is a must for any area of theoretical computer science. A good grasp of probability is particularly useful in my work.
See here for the official application procedure. If you'd like to work with me, mention it in your application and send me an email.
For general advice about being a Ph.D. student, check out this, this, and everything here.

"We know that five minus four is one
But a cloud minus a sailboat
Have no idea what it is."

-- Another Kind of Mathematics, Nichita Stanescu

Home
Papers
Teaching
Blog

