Professor: Aniket Bera
University: Purdue University
URL: https://www.cs.purdue.edu/~ab
Description: Aniket Bera
Purdue University
Associate Professor in Computer Science
Director: IDEAS Lab

305 N University St.
West Lafayette
IN 47907
Phone: (301) 405-4209
email: ab [at] cs.purdue.edu



 Google Scholar
Curriculum Vitae
 Twitter
 Facebook
 LinkedIn


About

Dr. Aniket Bera is an Associate Professor at the Department of Computer Science at Purdue University. He directs the interdisciplinary research lab IDEAS (Intelligent Design for Empathetic and Augmented Systems) at Purdue, working on modeling the "human" and "social" aspects using AI in Robotics, Graphics, and Vision. He is also an Adjunct Associate Professor at the University of Maryland at College Park. Prior to this, he was a Research Assistant Professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He received his Ph.D. in 2017 from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He is also the founder of Project Dost. He is currently serving as the Senior Editor for IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters (RA-L) in the area of "Planning and Simulation" and the Conference Chair for the ACM SIGGRAPH Conference on Motion, Interaction and Games (MIG 2022).

His core research interests are in Affective Computing, Computer Graphics (AR/VR, Augmented Intelligence, Multi-Agent Simulation), Social Robotics, Autonomous Agents, Cognitive modeling, and planning for intelligent characters.

He has advised and co-advised multiple M.S. and Ph.D. students. He has authored over 70+ papers, 2000+ citations and his work has won multiple awards at top Graphics/VR conferences. He also works with the University of Maryland at Baltimore Medical School to build algorithms and systems to help therapists and doctors detect mental health and social anxiety issues (AI + Mental Health). His research involves novel combinations of methods and collaborations in machine learning, computational psychology, computer graphics, and physically-based simulation to develop real-time computational models to learn human behaviors. Dr. Bera has previously worked in many research labs, including Disney Research, Intel, and the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing.

Dr. Bera's research has been featured on CBS, WIRED, Forbes, FastCompany, Times of India etc.

Note: This WWW isn't updated regularly. For full list of publications, grants and workshops please refer to CV or Google Scholar



Now Hiring:

I'm hiring multiple Postdoctoral Research Associates in the interdisciplinery areas of AI, affective computing, computer graphics and multi-agent planning. Please send me an email with your resume. Advertisment link here!
If you're looking for graduate admissions (MS/PhD) , please email me and apply to the Purdue CS. Please note that all admission decisions are taken by the committee.
If you're already a student at Purdue, the best way to increase the chances of a response to an e-mail is to read one of my recent papers and include a concise paragraph with the benefits and drawbacks of the main idea as well as possible improvements you'd be interested to try and send me an email with your CV and background.

🗣 Updates/News
5/10/2022
Appointed as Senior Editor for IEEE Robotics and Automation Letter (RA-L) in the area of "Planning and Simulation"
5/10/2022
Grant Awarded by "TEDCO (Maryland Technology Development Corporation)" (Principal Investigator) for Project Dost
3/10/2022
🏆 Best Paper Award (Honorable Mention) in in IEEE VR 2022 for ENI: Quantifying Environment Compatibility for Natural Walking in Virtual Reality
10/01/2021
🏆 Best Paper Award (Honorable Mention) in ISMAR 2021 for Redirected Walking in Static and Dynamic Scenes Using Visibility Polygons (🎉Awarded 3 Virtual Reality awards in 2021 🎉 )
08/09/2021
Conference Chair for ACM SIGGRAPH MIG 2022
07/16/2021
Organizing Indian Contextual Emotion Learning Challenge at IEEE FG2021 with IIIT-Delhi
05/02/2021
🥇 Runner-up for Innovate Maryland Invention of the Year for M3ER: Multiplicative Mulimodal Emotion Recognition using Facial, Textual, and Speech Cues
04/01/2021
🏆 Best Paper Award in IEEE Virtual Reality 2021 for Text2Gestures: A Transformer-Based Network for Generating Emotive Body Gestures for Virtual Agents
04/01/2021
🏆 Honorable Mention in IEEE Virtual Reality 2021 for ARC: Alignment-based Redirection Controller for Redirected Walking in Complex Environments
03/22/2021
Grant Awarded by Maryland Department of Health on Virtual Embodiment in VR (Initiative on Adaptive Stress Response for individuals in a High-Risk Occupation) (Principal Investigator)
12/14/2020
Grant Awarded by "Maryland Department of Transportation State Highway Administration"
(Principal Investigator)
9/5/2020
"A New Meaning for Mental Health ‘Screening’" Maryland Today covers our on-going Mental Health research in-collaboration with the Medical School at Baltimore
12/1/2020
Grant Awarded by "Department of Defense DURIP" (Co-Principal Investigator)
9/5/2020
"Sci-Fi Social Distancing?" Maryland Today covers our on-going COVID-19 Robot research
9/1/2020
"UMIACS Faculty Receive MPower Funding to Improve Mental Telehealth Services Using AI" MPower Grant Coverage by UMD UMIACS
9/1/2020
"Aniket Bera and Dinesh Manocha Receive the 2020 Brain and Behavior Initiative Seed Grant" BBI Grant Coverage by UMD CS
8/4/2020
Grant Awarded by "University of Maryland MPower Grant" COVID-19 Initiative (Principal Investigator)
6/24/2020
Grant Awarded by "UMD Brain and Behavior Initiative" (Principal Investigator)
















📰 Media Coverage


UMD Researchers: Could Robots Prevent Spread Of COVID-19




This Robot Can Guess How You're Feeling by the Way You Walk




ProxEmo: Can AI Detect Your Emotion Just By How You Walk?




Pather Panchali reimagined using Artificial Intelligence: Multiple Articles in English, Bengali and Malayalam



There’s a new AI that can guess how you feel just by watching you walk




Indian Researcher & His Team Build AI That Can Tell How We Feel Just By Seeing Us Walk




Identifying perceived emotions from people's walking style




Sci-Fi Social Distancing?




AI identifies human emotion based on walking style




AI classifies people’s emotions from the way they walk




A path for all walks of life!




Ready, Set, Brake!




Dal modo di incedere è possibile perfino dedurre i primi segni di malattie come il Parkinson e il morbo d'Alzheimer (Italian)



Arts, Science & Culture Profile: Molecular Movement




AI uses camera footage to track pedestrians in dense crowds




New Computer Science Building unveiled on Maryland Day




New software can track many individuals in a crowd




L’IA qui peut reconnaître l’humeur d’une personne en analysant sa démarche (French)




Une nouvelle intelligence artificielle peut deviner les sentiments des gens en les regardant marcher (French)




Cientistas ensinaram IA a perceber como nos sentimos pela nossa forma de andar (Portuguese)




This AI Can Tell People's Feeling By Analyzing The Way They Walk


📖 Latest Publications

Learning Unseen Emotions from Gestures via Semantically-Conditioned Zero-Shot Perception with Adversarial Autoencoders
AAAI 2022 Conference Papers
Abhishek Banerjee, Uttaran Bhattacharya, Aniket Bera





Redirected Walking in Static and Dynamic Scenes Using Visibility Polygons
TVCG and ISMAR 2021 Journal Papers Conference Papers 🏆Best Paper Award
Niall L. Williams, Aniket Bera, Dinesh Manocha





Can a Robot Trust You? A DRL-Based Approach to Trust-Driven Human-Guided Navigation
ICRA 2021 Conference Papers
Vishnu Sashank Dorbala, Arjun Srinivasan Ambalam, Aniket Bera





Text2Gestures: A Transformer-Based Network for Generating Emotive Body Gestures for Virtual Agents
IEEE VR 2020 Conference Papers 🏆Best Paper Award
Uttaran Bhattacharya, Nicholas Rewkowski, Abhishek Banerjee, Pooja Guhan, Aniket Bera, Dinesh Manocha




Multimodal and Context-Aware Emotion Perception Model with Multiplicative Fusion
IEEE Multimedia Journal Papers
Trisha Mittal, Aniket Bera, Dinesh Manocha





ARC: Alignment-based Redirection Controller for Redirected Walking in Complex Environments
TVCG and IEEE VR 2020 Journal Papers Conference Papers 🏆Best Paper Award
Niall L. Williams, Aniket Bera, Dinesh Manocha





Generating Emotive Gaits for Virtual Agents Using Affect-Based Autoregression
ISMAR 2020 Conference Papers
Uttaran Bhattacharya, Nicholas Rewkowski, Pooja Guhan, Niall L. Williams, Trisha Mittal, Aniket Bera, Dinesh Manocha




Emotions Don't Lie: A Deepfake Detection Method using Audio-Visual Affective Cues
ACM MM 2020 Conference Papers
Trisha Mittal, Uttaran Bhattacharya, Rohan Chandra, Aniket Bera, Dinesh Manocha







Students






For full list of current/past students, go to the IDEAS page at https://ideas.cs.purdue.edu/people/




Funding agencies and collaborators
  
   

