Professor: Anirudha Majumdar
University: Princeton University
URL: https://irom-lab.princeton.edu/majumdar
Description:  
Home
 
Research
 
Publications
 
People
 
Facilities
 
Videos
 
Software
 
Press
 
Teaching
Anirudha Majumdar

Associate Professor, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering

Associated Faculty, Computer Science

Princeton University

Visiting Research Scientist, Google DeepMind @ Princeton

Email: ani.majumdar at princeton . edu

Office: EQuad D202-B

Lab webpage.      Twitter.      YouTube.

Research Interests

I am interested in developing approaches for pushing agile robotic systems to the brink of their hardware limits while providing formal guarantees on their safety and performance. I am particularly excited about applying algorithmic and theoretical techniques from nonlinear control theory, optimization, motion planning, and machine learning to the areas of autonomous unmanned aerial vehicle flight, manipulation, and legged locomotion. Please see our lab webpage for more information.

Bio

Anirudha Majumdar is an Associate Professor in the Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering (MAE) department at Princeton University. He also holds a part-time visiting research scientist position at Google DeepMind in Princeton. Majumdar received a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 2016, and a B.S.E. in Mechanical Engineering and Mathematics from the University of Pennsylvania in 2011. Subsequently, he was a postdoctoral scholar at Stanford University from 2016 to 2017 at the Autonomous Systems Lab in the Aeronautics and Astronautics department.

He is a recipient of the Sloan Fellowship, ONR Young Investigator Program (YIP) award, NSF CAREER award, Google Faculty Research Award (twice), Amazon Research Award (twice), Young Faculty Researcher Award from the Toyota Research Institute, Best Student Paper Award (as advisor) at the Conference on Robot Learning (CoRL), Paper of the Year Award from the International Journal of Robotics Research (IJRR), Best Conference Paper Award at the International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), Alfred Rheinstein Faculty Award (Princeton), and the Excellence in Teaching Award (Princeton SEAS). 

Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress

