Professor: Anjalie Field
University: Johns Hopkins University
URL: https://anjalief.github.io/
Description: Anjalie Field
About C.V. Research Statements


anjalief[at]jhu.edu

I am an Assistant Professor in the Computer Science Department, Whiting School of Engineering at Johns Hopkins University. I am also affiliated with the Center for Language and Speech Processing (CLSP). My research focuses on the ethics and social science aspects of natural language processing, which includes developing language processing models to address societal issues like discrimination and propaganda, as well as critically assessing AI pipelines. Prior to joining JHU, I was a postdoctoral researcher in the Stanford NLP Group and Stanford Data Science Institute working with Dan Jurafsky and Jennifer Eberhardt. I completed my PhD at the Language Technologies Institute at Carnegie Mellon University, where I was advised by Yulia Tsvetkov.

Announcements

In the interest of improving equity in access to application materials, copies of my job and fellowship application states are available here

I am not currently taking summer research interns. I will likely be taking PhD students for the 2023-2024 admissions cycle (to start at JHU Fall 2024). For general information on my research areas and expectations, see here

Teaching

AI Ethics and Social Impact (Fall 2023), Johns Hopkins University, course website

NLP for Computational Social Science (Spring 2024), Johns Hopkins University, course website

Publications
Anjalie Field, Prateek Verma, Nay San, Jennifer L. Eberhardt, and Dan Jurafsky "Developing Speech Processing Pipelines for Police Accountability" INTERSPEECH (2023) (text)
Maria Antoniak, Anjalie Field, Jimin Mun, Melanie Walsh, Lauren F. Klein, and Maarten Sap. "Riveter: Measuring Power and Social Dynamics Between Entities" ACL - Demo (2023) (text)
Nupoor Gandhi, Anjalie Field, and Emma Strubell. "Mention Annotations Alone Enable Efficient Domain Adaptation for Coreference Resolution" ACL (2023). (text)
Anjalie Field, Amanda Coston, Nupoor Gandhi, Alexandra Chouldechova, Emily Putnam-Hornstein, David Steier, and Yulia Tsvetkov. "Examining risks of racial biases in NLP tools for child protective services" FAccT (2023). (text)
Inna Wanyin Lin*, Lucille Njoo*, Anjalie Field, Ashish Sharma, Katharina Reinecke, Tim Althoff, and Yulia Tsvetkov. "Gendered Mental Health Stigma in Masked Language Models" EMNLP (2022).
Chan Young Park*, Julia Mendelsohn*, Anjalie Field*, and Yulia Tsvetkov. "Challenges in Opinion Manipulation Detection: An Examination of Wartime Russian Media" Findings of EMNLP (2022). (text)
Anjalie Field*, Chan Young Park*, Antonio Theophilo*, Jamelle Watson-Daniels, and Yulia Tsvetkov. "An Analysis of Emotions and the Prominence of Positivity in #BlackLivesMatter Tweets" PNAS (2022). (text, code)
Anjalie Field, Chan Young Park, Kevin Z. Lin, and Yulia Tsvetkov. "Controlled Analyses of Social Biases in Wikipedia Bios" WebConf (2022). (text, code) [Winner of 2022 Wikimedia Foundation Research Award of the Year]
Nupoor Gandhi, Anjalie Field, and Yulia Tsvetkov. "Improving Span Representation for Domain-adapted Coreference Resolution" Workshop on Computational Models of Reference, Anaphora and Coreference at EMNLP (2021). (text)
Anjalie Field, Su Lin Blodgett, Zeerak Waseem, and Yulia Tsvetkov. "A Survey of Race, Racism, and Anti-Racism in NLP" ACL (2021). (text)
Chan Young Park*, Xinru Yan*, Anjalie Field*, and Yulia Tsvetkov. "Multilingual Contextual Affective Analysis of LGBT People Portrayals in Wikipedia" ICWSM (2021). (text, code)
Anjalie Field and Yulia Tsvetkov. "Unsupervised Discovery of Implicit Gender Bias" EMNLP (2020). (text, code)
Aman Tyagi*, Anjalie Field*, Priyank Lathwal, Yulia Tsvetkov, and Kathleen M. Carley. "A Computational Analysis of Polarization on Indian and Pakistani Social Media" Socinfo (2020). (text, code) [nominated for Best Paper]
Mengzhou Xia, Anjalie Field, and Yulia Tsvetkov. "Demoting Racial Bias in Hate Speech Detection" SocialNLP at ACL (2020). (text)
Anjalie Field, Sascha Rothe, Simon Baumgartner, Cong Yu, and Abe Ittycheriah. "A Generative Approach to Titling and Clustering Wikipedia Sections" WNGT at ACL (2020). (text)
Anjalie Field and Yulia Tsvetkov. "Entity-Centric Contextual Affective Analysis" ACL (2019). (text)
Anjalie Field, Gayatri Bhat, and Yulia Tsvetkov. "Contextual Affective Analysis: A Case Study of People Portrayals in Online #MeToo Stories" ICWSM (2019). (text, code)
Anjalie Field, Doron Kliger, Shuly Wintner, Jennifer Pan, Dan Jurafsky, and Yulia Tsvetkov. "Framing and Agenda-setting in Russian News: a Computational Analysis of Intricate Political Strategies." EMNLP (2018). (text, code)
Anjalie Field. "An Automated Approach to Syntax-based Analysis of Classical Latin." Digital Classics Online 3: 57-78 (2016). (text)
[Grey indicates a workshop venue. Black indicates conference or journal]

