Professor: Arkadi Nemirovski
University: Georgia Institute of Technology
URL: https://www.isye.gatech.edu/users/arkadi-nemirovski
Description: Skip to main navigation
Skip to main content
H. Milton Stewart School of Industrial and Systems Engineering
College of Engineering
Main navigation
Academics
Engage
Research
People
About
News & Events
GT Callout
Give
Contact Us
Arkadi Nemirovski
Breadcrumb
Home 
John P. Hunter, Jr. Chair
Professor
CONTACT
  Groseclose 446
  404.385.0769
  Personal website
   Contact
 
EDUCATION
Ph.D. Mathematics (1974), Moscow State University
Doctor of Physical & Mathematical Sciences (1990), Supreme Attestation Board at the USSR Council of Ministers
EXPERTISE
Convex and Continuous Optimization
About

Arkadi Nemirovski is the John P. Hunter, Jr. Chair in the H. Milton Stewart School of Industrial and Systems Engineering at Georgia Tech.

Dr. Nemirovski's research interests focus on Optimization Theory and Algorithms, with emphasis on investigating complexity and developing efficient algorithms for nonlinear convex programs, optimization under uncertainty, applications of convex optimization in engineering, and nonparametric statistics.

Dr. Nemirovski has made fundamental contributions in continuous optimization in the last thirty years that have significantly shaped the field. In recognition of his contributions to convex optimization, Nemirovski was awarded the 1982 Fulkerson Prize from the Mathematical Programming Society and the American Mathematical Society (joint with L. Khachiyan and D. Yudin), the Dantzig Prize from the Mathematical Programming Society and the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics in 1991 (joint with M. Grotschel). He was elected a Member of the National Academy of Engineering (2017) and a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (2018).

In recognition of his seminal and profound contributions to continuous optimization, Nemirovski was awarded the 2003 John von Neumann Theory Prize by the Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences (along with Michael Todd). He He continues to make significant contributions in almost all aspects of continuous optimization: complexity, numerical methods, stochastic optimization, and non-parametric statistics.

Dr. Nemirovski earned a Ph.D. in Mathematics (1974) from Moscow State University,  the Doctor of Sciences in Mathematics (1990) from the Supreme Attestation Board at the USSR Council of Ministers, and the Doctor of Mathematics (Honoris Causa) from the University of Waterloo, Canada (2009).

Awards and Honors
Member of the National Academy of Sciences 2020
Norbert Wiener Prize in Applied Mathematics from AMS and SIAM (with M. Berger) 2019
Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences 2018
Member of the National Academy of Engineering 2017
Honoris Causa Degree of Doctor of Mathematics, University of Waterloo, Canada 2009
John von Neumann Theory Prize of INFORMS (with M. Todd) 2003
Dantzig Prize of the Mathematical Programming Society and SIAM (with M. Grotschel) 1991
Fulkerson Prize of the Mathematical Programming Society and AMS (with L. Khachiyan and D. Yudin) 1982
    
Georgia Institute of Technology

North Avenue
Atlanta, GA 30332
+1 404.894.2000
Campus Map

ISyE Employment Opportunities
Directory
Employment
Emergency Information
Equal Opportunity, Nondiscrimination, and Anti-Harassment Policy
Legal & Privacy Information
Human Trafficking Notice
Title IX/Sexual Misconduct
Hazing Public Disclosures
Accessibility
Accountability
Accreditation
Report Free Speech and Censorship Concern

© 2024 Georgia Institute of Technology

GT LOGIN

