Professor: Aruna Balasubramanian
University: Stony Brook University
URL: https://www.cs.stonybrook.edu/people/faculty/ArunaBalasubramanian
Description: Skip to main content
Department of Computer Science

Main menu
HOME
ABOUT US
ADMISSIONS
PEOPLE
RESEARCH
PROGRAMS
GIVING
Aruna Balasubramanian
Associate Professor

Department of Computer Science
Room 337
Stony Brook, NY 11794-2424

Phone
(631) 632-2461
Website (URL)
http://www3.cs.stonybrook.edu/~arunab
Email
arunab@cs.stonybrook.edu
INTERESTS
Systems, Mobile Computing, Web performance, Networking.

BIOGRAPHY

Aruna Balasubramanian joined the computer science department at Stony Brook in spring 2015. Prior to that, she was a post-doctoral fellow at the University of Washington in Seattle. She received her PhD from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst in February 2011. She completed her Masters degree at SUNY Buffalo. 

RESEARCH

Aruna Balasubramanian's work incorporates elements of both networking and systems in the context of mobile devices. The goal of her work is to design mobile protocols/systems that radically improve performance. Current mobile system designs make assumptions, that while true for the wired environment, are not valid for the mobile environment. Instead, she wants to re-architect mobile systems to better support current and next-generation applications. Dr. Balasubramanian's recent projects include MobileHub (reduces energy consumption of always-on sensing applications by leveraging heterogenous hardware), WProf (a tool that identifies the bottlenecks during page load), and FindAll (makes mobile applications less reliant on the cloud by building a local search engine on phones, that lets users search locally).

AWARDS
Applied Networking Research Prize (2015); Sigcomm Dissertation Award Runner Up (2011); UMass Outstanding Dissertation Award (2011); Computing Innovation Fellowship (2010-2012); Microsoft Research Fellowship (2008-2010)
TEACHING SUMMARY
CSE 692
Right Faculty Menu
Faculty
Graduate Students
Staff
Awards
 

Department of Computer Science, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY 11794-2424 

Stony Brook University Home Page     |     CEAS    |     Members Only Area    |     Contact Us

