Professor: Benjamin J. Raphael
University: Princeton University
URL: https://www.cs.princeton.edu/people/profile/braphael
Description: Skip to main content
CS Guide Directory Contact
Department of
COMPUTER SCIENCE
	
	
Undergraduate Program
Graduate Program
Courses
Research
People
Diversity & Outreach
About
Home People
Ben Raphael
Title/Position
Professor
Degree
Ph.D., University of California, San Diego, 2002
 braphael  (@cs.princeton.edu)
 (609) 258-6314
 309 Computer Science
Homepage
https://www.cs.princeton.edu/~braphael
Other Affiliations
CSML, Genomics, PBI
Research

Interests: Computational biology

Research Areas:

Computational Biology

Short Bio

Ben Raphael designs and applies combinatorial, statistical, and machine learning algorithms for the interpretation of biological data.  Recent areas of emphasis include cancer genomics and evolution, network/pathway analysis of genetic variants, and structural variation in human and cancer genomes.  His group’s algorithms have been used in multiple projects from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and the International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC).  He co-led the TCGA Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma project and the network analysis in the ICGC Pan-Cancer Analysis of Whole Genomes (PCAWG).

More information is available the Raphael Lab webpage.

Ben Raphael received an S.B. in Mathematics from MIT, a Ph.D. in Mathematics from the University of California, San Diego (UCSD), and completed postdoctoral training in Bioinformatics and Computer Science at UCSD.  From 2006-2016, he was on the faculty at Brown University, and from 2013-2016 he directed the Center for Computational Molecular Biology.  He is the recipient of the Innovator Award from the International Society for Computational Biology (ISCB), the Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship, the NSF CAREER award, and a Career Award at the Scientific Interface from the Burroughs Wellcome Fund.  He is an elected Fellow of ISCB.

Navigation
 Faculty
 Researchers
 Technical Staff
 Administrative Staff
 Graduate Students
 Undergraduate Students
 Graduate Alumni
 Events
7
Aug
Srikar Kasi FPO (CS 301 & Zoom)
Full calendar and archive
 News
JULY 15TH, 2024
Dylan Epstein-Gross named Goldwater Scholar
JUNE 17TH, 2024
Swarm Garden brings robotic flowers to life
JUNE 17TH, 2024
Fernando Avilés-García's senior thesis uses artificial intelligence to analyze Dante
News archive
Follow us:   

© 2024 The Trustees of Princeton University.

Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Site Map

