Professor: Bernd Sturmfels
University: Univ. of California - Berkeley
URL: https://math.berkeley.edu/~bernd
Description: 	  	
 


 
Home
Biography
Articles
Books
Research
Students
Postdocs
Teaching
	

Bernd Sturmfels

Director at the Max Planck Institute
for Mathematics in the Sciences
Leipzig, Germany

bernd@mis.mpg.de


Professor Emeritus in Mathematics,
Statistics and Computer Science,
University of California at Berkeley

bernd@berkeley.edu







Research Interests: Algebraic Geometry, Combinatorics, Commutative Algebra, Algebraic Statistics, Convex Optimization, Computational Biology, Theoretical Physics



	



Honorary Doctorates

On December 2, 2023, I was awarded an honorary doctorate by the University of Bern, Switzerland. In June 2024, I will be awarded an honorary doctorate by the University of Chicago. Many thanks to everyone who supported me.





Metric Algebraic Geometry

Paul Breiding, Kathlén Kohn and I published this book in the Oberwolfach Seminars Series. We hope you'll find it useful for teaching or self-study.





Students Going Places

News from 2024: Madeline Brandt accepted a tenure-track position at Vanderbilt University. Kemal Rose starts a postdoc at KTH Stockholm in February. Yelena Mandelshtam won an NSF postdoctoral fellowship, which she will take at IAS Princeton and the University of Michigan. Yassine El Maazouz will be a Harry Bateman Fellow Caltech starting in January 2025. Congratulations to everone!!





Invitation to Nonlinear Algebra

Mateusz Michalek and I published this textbook in the Graduate Studies Series of the American Mathematical Society. We hope you'll find it useful for teaching or self-study.





What is Algebraic Geometry?

This is a webinar, aimed at a general audience, in the NAS series Mathematical Frontiers. Mark Green hosts short presentations by Ravi Vakil and me.





Adventures in Mentoring

I wrote this piece for the Early Career Section of the Notices of the AMS.





Excellence through Diversity

This article appeared in the newsletter of the European Women in Mathematics (EWM).





Nina and Pascal

My daughter Nina is a Fashion Designer. She works for Athleta. Click here for a article that features her. My son Pascal is a PhD student in Computer Science. You can find him on Google Scholar.





Waxing Moon

My wife Hyungsook Kim published this excellent historic novel, set in 19th century Korea.





	
:: Some Coming Activities
	09/24 Dress Legacy at MPI
	11/24 Combinatorics and Physics at IAS




:: Some Recent Activities
	06/24 Amplitudes at IAS
	04/24 Minimal Kinematics in Bonn
	11/23 Math and Decision in Morocco
	10/23 Computer Algebra in Paris
	10/23 Mathematics in Science at Harvard
	09/23 Algebraic Statistics in Chicago
	08/23 Information Geometry in St Malo
	07/23 SIAM Alg Geom in Eindhoven
	05/23 Algebraic Statistics in Oaxaca
	04/23 Amplituhedra in Dublin
	03/23 GROW in Bonn
	01/23 Porter Lecture at JMM Boston
	10/22 Solving Polynomials in Amsterdam
	09/22 DMV Annual Meeting in Berlin
	09/22 Polynomial Optimization in Paris
	06/22 CCAAGS in Seattle
	06/22 Complex Data in Stockholm
	04/22 Algebra and Physics at Harvard



:: Some Writings
	Linear Programming
	Dualities
	Space Curves
	Chemistry
	Pictures of tropical planes
	How to evaluate integrals?
	Computer algebra in systems biology
	What is a Grobner basis?
	What is an ellipse?
	Elimination for tropical varieties
	The human genotope




Home | Biography | Articles | Books | Research | Students | Postdocs | Teaching
 

