Professor: Biplav Srivastava
University: University of South Carolina
URL: https://sites.google.com/site/biplavsrivastava
Description: Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
Dr. Biplav Srivastava
Summary
About Biplav
Activities
Apps and Tools
Communication
Papers
Patents
Research
Students
Teaching
Dr. Biplav Srivastava
Professor, AI Institute, University of South Carolina

ACM Distinguished Scientist, AAAI Senior Member, IEEE Senior Member, AAAS Leshner Fellow (2020-21)
Contact: biplav.s AT sc.edu, +1 518 496 0128, @biplav_s (Twitter), LinkedIn

Research group, AI for Society (AI4S)

I am a Professor of Computer Science at the AI Institute at University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC, USA.  Here are links to my Google researcher profile, LinkedIn profile and my research group webpage, AI for Society. 

Research Interests

My research deals with enabling people to make rational decisions despite real world complexities of poor data, changing goals and limited resources by augmenting their cognitive limitations with technology. I am working on: 

(Fundamentals oriented) Neuro-symbolic methods, that are methods which combine symbolic and neural methods. In particular, we are focusing on AI sub-areas of planning and group recommendation, and how LLMs may help overcome existing research challenges. 

(Usability oriented) Trusted AI, that is how to make AI reliable, with chatbots as a particular usecase.

(Application oriented) Use sensor and open data for better decisions for better living in Smarter Communities (water, elections, finance, power, health)

Information Available

One can go to pages with more details on my background, research (students, papers, patents, tools), teaching, communication (talks, technical blogs, client interactions, professional activities, opinions and research ideas for community) and resume. 

Pick-3 Highlights 

Research and Publications: AI-driven teaming recommendations  (IAAI/AAAI 2024 Deployed Award), SafeChat architecture (AI Magazine; Aug 2023), trust ratings (AI Ethics; Dec 2023) for trust critical applications like elections and education, information spread in opinion networks (AAAI 2024 best demo award),   Power and AI/ML (IAAI/ AAAI 2023, with Tantiv4), Data-driven planning using transformers

Activities and Teaching: Leading workshop on AI for Credible Elections at AAAI-24, Collaborative activities with HBCU Benedict(Spring 2023), CSCE-581 Trusted AI becomes regular course starting Fall 2023

Funding and Collaborations: Corporate - JP Morgan Research, Cisco Research, Tantiv4, IBM Research; Academic - MIT, IIT Roorkee, UT Dallas; and Government - SCRA

Call for Collaboration

I am looking for enthusiastic and curious students, particularly at PhD and Post-doc levels, to work on exciting problems in AI with social intelligence. We build novel proof-of-concept systems, and in particular, collaborative assistants, that do work which people want. I am always keen to work with public sector and innovative companies to accelerate technology adoption.

Personal Note

I am involved in a privately funded non-governmental organization doing public service in India detailed here.

Visited 27 countries (12%)

Visited 24 states (68.5)

Create your own visited map of The World

 Create your own visited map of The United States

Create your own visited map of India

Page updated
Google Sites
Report abuse

