Professor: Bo Ji 0001
University: Virginia Tech
URL: http://people.cs.vt.edu/boji
Description: Home
Research
Publications
Teaching
Group
Activities
Links
News
	
Bo Ji (季博)
 	

Associate Professor of Computer Science
College of Engineering Faculty Fellow
Virginia Tech


Editor, IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking (ToN)

Editor, ACM SIGMETRICS Performance Evaluation Review (PER)

Associate Editor, IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering (TNSE)

Research Lab: Synergistic Networking and Augmented Intelligence Lab (SNAIL)


Contact Information
Email: boji AT vt DOT edu and boji AT cs DOT vt DOT edu
Phone: +1 (540) 231-0331
Fax: +1 (540) 231-9218
Office: Gilbert Place 4203
Address: 220 Gilbert Street, Blacksburg, VA 24060


Biography: Bo Ji received his B.E. and M.E. degrees in Information Science and Electronic Engineering from Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China, in 2004 and 2006, respectively, and his Ph.D. degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA, in 2012. Dr. Ji is an Associate Professor of Computer Science and a College of Engineering Faculty Fellow at Virginia Tech. Prior to joining Virginia Tech, he was an Associate Professor in the Department of Computer and Information Sciences at Temple University, where he was an Assistant Professor from July 2014 to June 2020. He was also a Senior Member of Technical Staff at AT&T Labs, San Ramon, CA, from January 2013 to June 2014. His research interests lie in the modeling, analysis, control, and optimization of computer and network systems, such as next-generation (NextG) networks, edge and cloud computing, information-update systems, and cyber-physical systems. He also works broadly on various topics at the intersection of networking, machine learning, security and privacy, and spatial computing. He has been the general co-chair of IEEE/IFIP WiOpt 2021 and the technical program co-chair of ACM MobiHoc 2023 and ITC 2021, and he has also served on the editorial boards of various IEEE/ACM journals (IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, ACM SIGMETRICS Performance Evaluation Review, IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering, IEEE Internet of Things Journal, and IEEE Open Journal of the Communications Society). Dr. Ji is a senior member of the IEEE and the ACM. He was a recipient of the National Science Foundation (NSF) CAREER Award in 2017, the NSF CISE Research Initiation Initiative Award in 2017, the IEEE INFOCOM 2019 Best Paper Award, the IEEE/IFIP WiOpt 2022 Best Student Paper Award, the IEEE TNSE Excellent Editor Award in 2021 and 2022, and the Faculty Fellow Award from the College of Engineering at Virginia Tech in 2023.


Postdoctoral Associate Position Available: My colleague, Prof. Peng Gao, and I are seeking a talented individual to fill a postdoctoral associate position at Virginia Tech’s Computer Science Deparment. The successful candidate will collaborate with us on cutting-edge research in programmable switch (P4)-enabled network security, zero-trust architecture, and cyber threat protection. This role promises a competitive salary, comprehensive health insurance, and many other benefits such as support for attending academic conferences. The postdoctoral associate will have the unique opportunity to work alongside brilliant Ph.D. students from both of our groups, fostering a collaborative and innovative research environment. Candidates who are interested in this position are encouraged to contact us.

News

[April 2024]: Dr. Bo Ji was invited to serve as General Chair for MOSC Workshop, co-located with IEEE/IFIP WiOpt 2024.

[April 2024]: Dr. Bo Ji was invited to serve as Area Chair for IEEE INFOCOM 2025.

[April 2024]: Ph.D. student Matthew Corbett received the Ph.D. Research Award from Department of Computer Science at Virginia Tech. Huge congratulations to Matt! Our group's students have received this award for the second consecutive time.

[Februrary 2024]: Dr. Bo Ji has been selected as the 2024-2026 Ewha Global Fellow at Ewha Womans University, Seoul, South Korea.

[Februrary 2024]: News articles featuring our work on protecting bystander privacy in augmented reality. [VT News] [Cardinal News]

[August 2023]: Thanks to Nokia for funding our project on “Robust AI/ML Workflows for Networking”.

[August 2023]: Thanks to the NSF for funding our project on “Black-box Optimization of White-box Networks: Online Learning for Autonomous Resource Management in NextG Wireless Networks.” This is a joint project led by Dr. Bo Ji, with Dr. Y. Charlie Hu (Purdue University), Dr. Xingyu Zhou (Wayne State University), and Dr. Ness B. Shroff (The Ohio State University).

[July 2023]: Thanks to the NSF for funding our project on “SWEET: Hardware and Software for Sustainable Wearable Edge Intelligence.” This is a joint project with Dr. Dimitrios Nikolopoulos (Virginia Tech), Dr. Hans Vandierendonck (Queen's University Belfast), and Dr. Deepu John (University College Dublin).

[July 2023]: Ph.D. student Osama Bajaber received the Bitshares Fellowship. Congratulations to Osama!

[July 2023]: Dr. Bo Ji start to serve as Editor for ACM SIGMETRICS Performance Evaluation Review (PER).

[June 2023]: Dr. Bo Ji was invited to serve as Registration Chair for ACM SIGMETRICS/IFIP Performance 2024.

[June 2023]: Dr. Bo Ji was invited to serve as Workshop Co-Chair and Publication Co-Chair for IEEE INFOCOM 2024.

[May 2023]: Thanks to ICAT for funding our project on “Securing Trustworthy XR Interactions through Human-Machine Networks in Healthcare”. This is a joint project with Dr. Brendan David-John, Dr. Maaz Gardezi, and Dr. Andy Muelenaer.

[May 2023]: Thanks to ICAT/CHCI for funding our project on “Understanding the Long-Term Impact and Perceptions of Privacy-enhancing Technologies for Bystander Obscuration in Wearable Augmented Reality Displays”. This is a joint project with Dr. Brendan David-John.

[May 2023]: Former Ph.D. student Fengjiao Li received the Ph.D. Research Award from Department of Computer Science at Virginia Tech. Huge congratulations to Fengjiao!

[April 2023]: Thanks to LAUNCH: the Center for New Ventures for funding our Proof-of-Concept (POC) project on “Prototype Refinement and Customer Discovery for Bystander Privacy in Augmented Reality (AR) Systems”. This is a joint project with Dr. Brendan David-John.

[April 2023]: Ph.D. student Matthew Corbett received the Richard E. Nance Graduate Fellowship in Computer Science. Congratulations to Matt!

[April 2023]: Dr. Bo Ji received the College of Engineering Faculty Fellow Award. Thank you very much, College of Engineering and Department of Computer Science at Virginia Tech, for the recognition. Many thanks to my students and collaborators, as well as colleagues who have helped and supported me!

[March 2023]: Ph.D. students, Matthew Corbett and Osama Bajaber, were selected for the CCI SWVA Cyber Innovation Scholarship. Congratulations, Matt and Osama!

[More news …]

Page generated 2024-04-27 14:04:14 EDT, by jemdoc+MathJax.

