Professor: Bridget T. McInnes
University: Virginia Commonwealth University
URL: http://www.people.vcu.edu/~btmcinnes
Description: CONTACT
LAB
DATA
SOFTWARE
TEACHING
PUBLICATIONS
PEOPLE
RESEARCH
NEWS
NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSING LAB
NEWS
CONTENT
2021
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
2015
2014
NEWS

Welcome to the VCU Natural Language Processing Lab site. Keep scrolling to view recent to old news and announcements.

2021
Congratulations Andriy Mulyar for his paper on Multitasking Clinical BERT being published!
MT-Clinical BERT: Scaling Clinical Information Extraction with Multitask Learning. Andriy Mulyar, Ozlem Uzuner, and Bridget T. McInnes. Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association 28.10 (2021): 2108-2115.
Congratulations Darshini (Samantha) Mahendran and Gabrielle Gurdin for their paper on extraction chemical events from patents being published!
Identifying Chemical Reactions and Their Associated Attributes in Patents. Darshini Mahendran, Gabrielle Gurdin, Nastassja Lewinski, Christina Tang, and Bridget T. McInnes. Frontiers in Research Metrics and Analytics. 6:688353; 2021.
Congratulations Dr. Sam Henry and Aidan Myers - their LBD paper that led to insights into the metabolomic processes of cardiac arrest was just published!
Using literature based discovery to gain insights into the metabolomic processes of cardiac arrest. Sam Henry, Dayanjan S. Wijesinghe, Aidan Meyers, and Bridget McInnes. Frontiers in Research Metrics and Analytics. 6 (2021): 32.
Congratulations Darshini (Samantha) Mahendran for winning 3rd place in the AMIA Informatics Summits 2021 Student Competition. You can view her presentation here!
Congratulations Darshini (Samantha) Mahendran and Jeff Smith for their papers being accepted to the AMIA Summit!
Extracting Adverse Drug Events from Clinical Notes. Darshini Mahendran and Bridget T. McInnes. In Proceedings of the 2020 American Medical Informatics Summit. March 2020.
Psuedo-data generation for the extraction of Problems, Treatments and Tests. Jeff Smith, Evan French, William Cramer, Ozlem Uzuner and Bridget T. McInnes. In Proceedings of the 2020 American Medical Informatics Summit. March 2020.
Congratulations Amy Olex for her review on clinical time line extraction being published in JBI!
Review of Temporal Reasoning in the Clinical Domain for Timeline Extraction: Where we are and where we need to be. Amy L. Olex and Bridget T. McInnes. Journal of Biomedical Informatics (2021): 103784.
2020
Congratulations Clint Cuffy for winning the 2020 SIGHPC Computational and Data Science Fellowship!!!
Congratulations Samantha Mahendran and Cora Lewis for their system being accepted to present at the SSM4H Workshop! You can read about their system here:
NLP@VCU: Identifying adverse effects in English tweets for unbalanced data. Darshini Mahendran, Cora Lewis, and Bridget McInnes. In Proceedings of the Fifth Social Media Mining for Health Applications Workshop & Shared Task, pp. 158-160. 2020.
Congratulations Clint Cuffy for his paper being accepted to JBI!
Measuring the quality of patient-physician communication. Clint Cuffy, Nao Hagiwara, Scott Vrana, and Bridget T. McInnes. Journal of biomedical informatics 112 (2020): 103589.
Congratulations Jeff Smith for finishing his Masters! You can read his thesis here:
Pseudo-data Generation For Improving Clinical Named Entity Recognition. Jeffrey T. Smith Virginia Commonwealth University Masters Thesis. 2020.
Congratulations Corey Sutphin for his paper being accepted at JBI!
Adverse drug event detection using reason assignments in FDA drug labels. Corey Sutphin, Kahyun Lee, Antonio Jimeno Yepes, Özlem Uzuner, and Bridget T. McInnes. Journal of Biomedical Informatics 110 (2020): 103552.
Congratulations Samantha Mahendran and Gabby Gurdin for the participation in the CLEF 2020 ChEMU Shared Task! You can read about their system here:
NLPatVCU CLEF 2020 ChEMU Shared Task System Description. Darshini Mahendran, Gabrielle Gurdin, Nastassja Lewinski, Christina Tang, and Bridget T. McInnes. In the Conference and Labs of the Evaluation Forum (CLEF) 2020 Working Notes.
Congratulations Amy Olex, Gabby Gurdin, Jorge Vargas and Luke Maffey for their papers being accepted to the AMIA Summits!
Analysis of Inter-Domain and Cross-Domain Drug Review Polarity Classification. Gurdin, Gabrielle, Jorge A. Vargas, Luke G. Maffey, Amy L. Olex, Nastassja A. Lewinski, and Bridget T. McInnes. AMIA Joint Summits on Translational Science proceedings. AMIA Joint Summits on Translational Science 2020 (2020): 201-210.
Local Topic Mining for Reflective Medical Writing. Olex, Amy L., Deborah DiazGranados, Bridget T. McInnes, and Stephanie Goldberg. AMIA Summits on Translational Science Proceedings 2020 (2020): 459.
2019
Congratulations Sam Henry on his paper being accepted BMC bioinformatics!!
Indirect association and ranking hypotheses for literature based discovery. Sam Henry and Bridget T. McInnes. BMC bioinformatics 20 (1), 425, 2019.
Congratulations Amy Olex and Luke Maffey on their paper being accepted NACCL!!
NLP Whack-A-Mole: Challenges in Cross-Domain Temporal Expression Extraction. Amy Olex, Luke Maffey, and Bridget T. McInnes. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pp. 3682-3692, 2019.
Congratulations Sam Henry on his paper being accepted to the AMIA Summits!
A Literature Based Discovery Visualization System with Hierarchical Clustering and Linking Set Associations. Sam Henry, Ali Panahi, Dayanjan S. Wijesinghe and Bridget T. McInnes. In Proceedings of the AMIA Summits on Translational Science, pp. 582, 2019.
Congratulations Sam Henry and Alex McQuilkin on their paper being accepted to AI in Medicine!
Association measures for estimating semantic similarity and relatedness between biomedical concepts. Sam Henry, Alex McQuilkin and Bridget T. McInnes. Artificial intelligence in medicine 93, 1-10, 2019.
Congratulations Rachel Dorn for her paper being accepted at the RANLP 2019 student research workshop!
Dialect-Specific Models for Automatic Speech Recognition of African American Vernacular English. Rachel Dorn. In Proceedings of the Student Research Workshop associated with The 12th International Conference on Recent Advances in Natural Language Processing, pp. 16-20, 2019.
Congratulations Gabrielle Gurdin and Jorge Vargas for their poster being accepted to the Grace Hopper Conference!!
Quantifying the Sentiment of Online Drug Reviews. Gabrielle Gurdin, Jorge Vargas, Nastassja A. Lewinski and Bridget T. McInnes. Grace Hopper Celebration, 2019. (poster presentation).
Congratulations Sam Henry and Clint Cuffy on particiatping in the 2019 n2c2/OHNLP Shared Task! You can read their system description here:
Unsupervised Text Similarity. Clint Cuffy, Sam Henry and Bridget T. McInnes. The 2019 n2c2/OHNLP Shared-Task and Workshop, Washington, D.C.
Congratulations Amy Olex for her AMIA poster!!
Untapped Potential of Clinical Text for Opioid Surveillance, Amy L. Olex, Tamas Gal, Majid Afshar, Dmitriy Dligach, Niranjan Karnik, Travis Oakes, Brihat Sharma, Meng Xie, Bridget McInnes, Julian Solway, Abel N. Kho, William Cramer, and F. G. Moeller. In Proceedings of the American Medical Informatics Annual Symposium, 2019.
2018
NLP@VCU Participated in two Semeval Tasks:
SciREL at SemEval-2018 Task 7: A System for Semantic Relation Extraction and Classification. Darshini Mahendran, Chathurika S. Wickramasinghe and Bridget T. McInnces. Proceedings of The 12th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation, pages 853-857, June 2018.
Chrono at SemEval-2018 Task 6: A System for Normalizing Temporal Expressions. Amy Olex, Luke Maffey, Nicholas Morgan, and B T. McInnes. Proceedings of The 12th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation. pages 97-101, June 2018.
Congratulations Capstone and VIP Team for presenting at the VCU College of Engineering Science Expo!!
Action shot of the Capstone Team: Robert Grizzard, David Langston and Alfred Anderson!
Parital Group shot of the VIP Team: Abigail Byram, Brandon Watts, Yadu Pillai, Perray Saravanane, Andriy Mulyar and Cristian Romero-Fuentes!
Congratulations NLP Lab and Nanoinformatics VIP Team on their poster presentations at the VCU Undergraduate Research Symposium!!!
Congratulations Abbie Byram and Brandon Watts!
Congratulations Robert Grizzard!
Congratulations Clint Cuffy!
Congratulations Andriy Mulyar!
Congratulations Megan Charity!
Congratulations Robert Kalish, Jacob Jaminet and Perray Saravanane!
Congratulations Clint Cuffy on being highlighted in the 2018 Research Week Undergraduate Researchers!
Congratulations Abigail Byram on winning School of Engineering Computer Science best TA Award!!
2017
Congratulations Clint Cuffy, Jeffrey Smith and Jennifer Fore for their presentations at the Dean's Undergraduate Research Symposium. With a Special Congratulations to Clint Cuffy for winning second place which was a prize of $200!!
Congratulations 2nd place winner Clint Cuffy!
Congratulations Jennifer Fore on her awesome presentation!
Congratulations Jeffrey Smith on his awesome presentation!
Congratulations Abigail Byram and Andriy Mulyar for winning the 2018 VCU Dean's Undergraduate Research Initiative (DURI)!!
Congratulation Ali Senhaji on his internship presentation for his research on document classification for the Framework for Nanotechnology Discovery. Ali worked in the lab Spring-Summer of 2017! Stay tuned for a paper describing his work!

Ali also won the Erasmus+ Scholarship study at the University of Eastern Finland next semester (Spring 2018).



Way to go Ali!!
Congratulations Brandon Watts on winning Cap Tech Best Use of Natural Language Processing award at Ram Hacks!! Go read about his development of a Natural Live Polling application to identify relevant information from twitter and predict information about the population and try it out on his GitHub site!
Congratulations Sam Henry and Amy Olex on their VCU Travel Grant Award to present their research at the American Medical Informatics Association (AMIA) Conference! Read about their research here:
Semantic association for literature based discovery. Sam Henry and Bridget McInnes. In Proceedings of the American Medical Informatics Association. November 2017.
Linking Term Association: ranking implicit terms in literature-based discovery. Sam Henry. In Proceedings of the American Medical Informatics Association Graduate Student NLP-WG Workshop. November 2017.
Parsing MetaMap Files in Hadoop. Amy Olex, Albert Cano and Bridget McInnes. In Proceedings of the American Medical Informatics Association. November 2017.
26 September 2017: Dr. McInnes will be speaking at the Women Building Bio Conference with Dr. Lewinski and Dean Boyan on Next Generation Inspiration: Leadership, pass it on.
Congratulations Sam Henry on his paper Literature Based Discovery: models, methods and trends being accepted to the Journal of Biomedical Informatics!
NLP@VCU has two papers accepted to BioNLP year! Congratulations Sam Henry and Clint Cuffy!
Evaluating Feature Extraction Methods for Knowledge-based Biomedical Word Sense Disambiguation. Sam Henry, Clint Cuffy and Bridget McInnes. In Proceedings of the 16th Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing (BioNLP) at the Association of Computational Linguistics, 2017.
Improving Correlation with Human Judgments by Integrating Semantic Similarity with Second--Order Vectors. Bridget McInnes and Ted Pedersen. In Proceedings of the 16th Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing (BioNLP) at the Association of Computational Linguistics, 2017.
Congratulations Megan Charity for being one of four (out of thirteen) to win the NAACL Scholarship to attend the 2017 Annual Jelinek Memorial Summer School on Speech And Language Technology being held at Carnegie Mellon University Language Technologies Institute!
Congratulations Alex Mcquilkin (and his graduate student mentor Sam Henry) for winning third place in the 2017 Virginia Junior Academy Science Annual Research Symposium for math, Statistics, and Computer Science category!
Congratulations Alex Mcquilkin and Henry Roberts for the Dean's Early Initiative (DERI) presentations!


Congratulations Alex Mcquilkin and his Graduate Student mentor Sam Henry!
Congratulations Henry Roberts!
Congratulations Graduating NLPers: Edwin Lobo, Rashed Rashed, Josh Ramer, Kyle Ellis, Payal Shah and Jordan Tang!
VIP Team Members: Edwin Lobo and Rashed Rashed
Capstone Team Members: Kyle Ellis and Payal Shah
Congratulations Sam Henry for winning the School of Engineering Graduate Teaching Award!
Congratulations Clint Cuffy on winning an Undergraduate Research Summer Fellowship for his proposal on Identifying relations in biomedical text for literature-based discovery!
Congratulations to the Backlog Boys and Girls of the CIT for their awesome presentation on the VCU Biomedical Visualization Project. You can see their presentation here. Stay tuned for the release of their system!
Thank you Nick, Grant, Jocelyn, George, Reece, Luke, Amelia, and Jack!
Congratulations to the 2017 Capstone and VIP Nanoinformatics Teams for their presentations at the VCU Senior Design Expo!
Congratulations Kyle Ellis, Payal Shah and Jordan Tang! You can read more about their project here!
Congratulations Yilong Wang, Megan Charity, Jasmine Norman, Ali Senhaji, Jeffrey Smith and Clint Cuffy! You can read more about the VIP Nanoinformatics team here and here!
Congratulations Sam Henry on being awarded the Computer Science Teaching Assistant of the year two years in a row!
The VCU NLP lab has three posters accepted at the VCU Undergraduate Research Symposium!
Congratulations Clint Cuffy on his UROP Symposium poster!
Congratulations Megan Charity on her UROP Symposium poster!
Congratulations Josh Ramer on his UROP Symposium poster!
Congratulations Megan Charity on her CAPWIC poster presentation!
2016
NanoNLP in Engineering Weekly! See the full article here!
Congratulations Sam Henry on finishing his PhD Preliminary Examination!
Congratulations Sam Henry on his abstract "Semantic Relatedness for Literature Based Discovery" being accepted to the American Medical Informatics Association Graduate Student Consortium!
Congratulations Sam Henry on presenting his SemEval 2016 publication!
Congratulations Gabby Jones for giving an impressive presentation at the 2016 DERI symposium!
Congratulations Marley Hodson, Tanin Izadi, Ivan Jimenez, Ryan Murphy, Gabrielle Jones, Bridget McInnes and Nastassja Lewinski for their abstract being accepted at the 2016 nanoTOX conference!
Congratulations Gerard Briones, Ellen Korcovelos, Ryan Murphy and Keith Herbert for presenting their research at the VCU Undergraduate Research Symposium on April 20, 2016!
The VCU NLP Lab had three SemEval 2016 papers accepted this year! Congratulations Gerard Briones and Sam Henry!
VCU-TSA at Semeval-2016 Task 4: Sentiment Analysis in Twitter. Gerard Briones, Kasun Amarasinghe and Bridget McInnes.
VRep at Semeval-2016 Task 1 and Task 2: A System for Interpretable Semantic Similarity. Sam Henry and Allison Sands.
VCU at Semeval-2016 Task 14: Evaluating Similarity Measures for Semantic Taxonomy Enrichment. Bridget McInnes.
Congratulations Ellen Korcovelos for her poster being accepted at the Alzheimer’s Association International Conference (AAIC)! You can see Ellen's abstract here.
Congratulations Sam Henry on being awarded the Computer Science Teaching Assistant of the year! Here is the VCU NLP Lab celebrating with Sam!
Congratulations Ellen Korcovelos and Megan Davis for their first place finishes at the CAPWIC 2016 poster competition and flash talk! You can see Ellen's poster here and view Megan's flash talk here.
2015
Ellen Korcovelos presented her work on the Prediction of Lexical Anomalies (POLA) at the VCU Fall 2015 Undergraduate Research Symposium! You can see her poster here.
Initial Release of the Hermitage Technical Center High school students' Summerisation Of Unstructured Papers (SOUP) software package!
Inaugural release of the UMLS-Association package!
UMLS-Similarity v1.45 released with new measures added!
UMLS-Interface v1.43 released!
Dr. McInnes gave a talk at the Department of Biostatistics, Virginia Commonwealth University.
Dr. McInnes gave a talk at the Hermitage Technical Center to computer science high school students.
New semantic similarity paper!
2014
New semantic similarity paper!
UMLS-Similarity v1.41 released!
UMLS-Interface v1.41 released!
 | © COPYRIGHT 2017 BRIDGET MCINNES | ALL RIGHTS RESERVED | CREATED BY JORDAN TANG | LAST MODIFIED 2/12/2017 | 

