Professor: Byron C. Wallace
University: Northeastern University
URL: http://www.byronwallace.com/
Description: home
publications
students
data
teaching
evidence inference
cv
Northeastern
Khoury

   

Hello.

My name is Byron Wallace.

I'm the Sy and Laurie Sternberg Interdisciplinary Associate Professor at Northeastern University in the Khoury College of Computer Sciences. I work on NLP/ML + health. I am the Director of the BS in Data Science program.

My office is 2208 177 Huntington.

Research overview

My research is in Natural Language Processing and Machine Learning, with an emphasis on applications in health.

Working in the domain of health naturally motivates the methodological problems that I have worked on. For example, these include: model interpretability; learning with limited supervision from diverse sources; human-in-the-loop/hybrid systems; and trustworthiness of model outputs. For more details, see recent publications here.

On the applications side, one thread of my research concerns developing language technologies to automate (or semi-automate) biomedical evidence synthesis. Here is an episode of the NLP highlights podcast in which I discuss this work, here is a (brief) talk I gave at SciNLP 2020, and here is an article written for a lay audience about the effort. Elsewhere, I have worked on models for processing notes in Electronic Health Records.

A random sample of recentish publications

Jiuding Sun, Chantal Shaib and Byron C. Wallace. Evaluating the Zero-shot Robustness of Instruction-tuned Language Models ICLR; 2024.

Sanjana Ramprasad, Denis Jered McInerney, Iain J. Marshall and Byron C. Wallace. Automatically Summarizing Evidence from Clinical Trials: A Prototype Highlighting Current Challenges EACL (System Demonstrations track); 2023.

Sebastian Antony Joseph, Lily Chen, Jan Trienes, Hannah Louisa Göke, Monika Coers, Wei Xu, Byron C Wallace, and Junyi Jessy Li. FACTPICO: Factuality Evaluation for Plain Language Summarization of Medical Evidence ACL; 2024.

News

01/16/2024 ICLR Spotlight

Our paper, Evaluating the Zero-shot Robustness of Instruction-tuned Language Models was accepted as Spotlight (top 5%) at ICLR 2024

10/01/2022 Helping radiologists navigate EHR

We have received a new R01 from the NIH/NLM to work on neural summarization methods to aid diagnosis (collaboration with Dr. Geoffrey Young at Brigham and Women's Hospital).

06/27/2022 NSF Medium

The NSF has awarded me and Zack Lipton a grant to work on summarization methods for consequential domains (like healthcare).

05/13/2022 ACL Outstanding Paper Award

Our paper, “Evaluating Factuality in Text Simplification", was selected as an Outstanding Paper at ACL 2022

tweets
Support

My work has been supported with grants from the National Institutes of Health, National Science Foundation (including a CAREER grant), the Army Research Office, Seton hospital, Amazon and seed funds from Brown University.

