Professor: Catie Chang
University: Vanderbilt University
URL: http://www.cchanglab.net/
Description: Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
neurdylab	
HomePeopleResearchPublicationsContact
	
Neuroimaging & Brain Dynamics Lab
Welcome!

​​​Our goal is to increase understanding of the human brain by advancing functional neuroimaging methodology. We develop approaches for extracting information about brain activity in health and disease by combining neuroimaging (fMRI, EEG) and computational signal analysis techniques. Our research is highly interdisciplinary and collaborative, bridging fields such as engineering, computer science, neuroscience, psychology, and medicine.

We are at ​Vanderbilt University in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and the Department of Computer Science. We are also affiliated with the ﻿Department of Biomedical Engineering﻿, the Vanderbilt University Institute of Imaging Science (VUIIS), the Vanderbilt Institute for Surgery and Engineering (VISE), the Vanderbilt Brain Institute (VBI), and the Vanderbilt Memory & Alzheimer's Center.  More information about our current research can be found here, and you can find our publications here.

Lab news

Fall 2022: Sarah Goodale receives an NIH F99/K00 postdoctoral transition award!

Summer 2022: Richard Song receives an Excellence in Research Poster Award at the annual Vanderbilt Undergraduate Research Fair, as one of two awardees in the Medical Sciences category!

Summer 2022: Roza Bayrak chairs the Open Science Room at  OHBM 2022. Sarah Goodale leads the inaugural poster pals networking event, and is leading a project at BrainHack 2022!

Summer 2022: Welcome to our summer undergraduate researchers Stanley Vinet, Kate Wang, Ruoqi Yang, Siddharth Shah, Jiawei Zhu, and Richard Song, and high school students Jesse Cai and Achyuth Vivek!

Spring 2022: Bohan Jiang receives the ECE Program Award at the School of Engineering Senior Award Ceremony

Spring 2022: Shengchao Zhang wins the C. F. Chen Best Paper Award, in the Translational Research in Medicine Category

Spring 2022: Roza Bayrak and Shengchao Zhang pass their PhD qualifying exams!

Spring 2022: Kimberly Rogge-Obando joins as a PhD student! She also received an appointment on the Vanderbilt Brain Institute's Neuroscience Training Grant 

Spring 2022: Caroline Martin presents on EEG-fMRI acquisition at Vanderbilt ECE Day!

Fall 2021: Kate Wang receives Honorable Mention for Best Undergraduate Poster at the VISE Symposium! Kate was mentored by PhD student Sarah Goodale

[ archive ]

Page updated
Google Sites
Report abuse

