Professor: Changyou Chen
University: University at Buffalo
URL: https://cse.buffalo.edu/~changyou
Description: Changyou Chen
Home Publication Code Contact Courses
Welcome

I am an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the University at Buffalo, State University of New York. In general my research interest includes Bayesian machine learning, deep learning and deep reinforcement learning. Specifically, I am currently interested in:

Large-scale Bayesian sampling and inference
Deep generative models such as VAE and GAN
Deep reinforcement learning with Bayesian methods

Previously, I was a Research Assistant Professor and a Postdoctoral Associate in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke University. I got my PhD from College of Engineering and Computer Science, the Australian National University in 2014, and my master and bachelor degrees both from School of Computer Science, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.

My CV (outdated) can be downloaded here.

I am looking for motivated students, working on Bayesian learning and deep learning! Drop me an email if you are interested. Apologize if not being able to reply to every email due to the large volume.

Highlights (More Recent…)

 We are orgonizing the 1st workshop on [Foundation Models in Vision and Language], held in December 1st in conjunction with ICDM 2022, Orlando, FL, USA. Please click [here] for the details. We look forward to your excellent work!

I will serve as an Area Chair for AAAI 2022.

I will serve as an Area Chair for NeurIPS 2021-2022.

I will serve as an Area Chair for IJCAI 2021.

…

Two papers accepted by ICLR 2019.

Two papers accepted by NeurIPS 2019.

One paper accepted by IROS 2018.

One paper accepted by UAI 2018.

Two papers accepted by ICML 2018.

Two papers accepted by AISTATS 2018.

Research Interest

My current research interest focuses on scalable Bayesian methods and deep learning. Specially, I am interested in developing algorithms and theory for stochastic gradient Markov Chain Monte Carlo, deep generative models, as well as understanding insights of deep learning with Bayesian solutions.

I am also interested in Bayesian Nonparametrics, including but not limited to Poisson processes, Dirichlet processes, Indian buffet processes, Gaussian processes, and the family of dependent normalized random measures – my PhD thesis topic. For applications, I focus on Text Mining and Topic Models.

Check out my Publication page for details.

Design by Mark Reid, (Some rights reserved)

Powered by Jekyll, Pandoc, MathJax

