Professor: Charith Mendis
University: Univ. of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
URL: https://charithmendis.com/
Description: about
(current)
publications
team
teaching
service
awards
Charith Mendis

I am an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Prior to that, I was a visiting faculty researcher at Google Brain. My broad interests are at the intersection of compilers, program optimization and machine learning. I lead the ADAPT lab. Our current work is focused on two main fronts.

Automated compiler construction using machine learning and formal reasoning techniques targeting both commodity hardware and domain specific accelerators as well as diverse workloads.
High-performance compilation and program optimization techniques for machine learning and data science workloads.

Office: 4118, Siebel Center for Computer Science
201 N. Goodwin Ave., Urbana IL 61801
Email: charithm (at) illinois.edu

Research Opportunities

ADAPT lab has opportunities for undergraduate and graduate students. If you are a student who is passionate about building high performance ML optimization or compilation techniques or is passionate about automated compiler construction techniques using either machine learning or formal methods, please be in touch with me.

Click to read instructions before contacting me.

News
Apr 27, 2024	We released the TGLite framework for programming temporal GNNs. Check out its code and the documentation.
Feb 24, 2024	SPADE is recognized with a IEEE Micro Top Picks Honorable Mention.
Jan 18, 2024	PI Mendis receives NSF CAREER Award.
Nov 20, 2023	Dias accepted at SIGMOD 2024! Congratulations to Stefanos Baziotis for leading this effort! Please checkout the code and play around with Dias.
Nov 07, 2023	3 papers conditionally accepted at ASPLOS 2024! Congrats to all authors!
Funding
I am truly thankful for the sponsors of our research at the ADAPT lab. In particular, we are partially funded by the ACE center, one of the seven centers in JUMP 2.0, a Semiconductor Research Corporation (SRC) program sponsored by DARPA, by National Science Foundation (NSF) and through generous gifts from Google, Intel and Qualcomm.

    
© Copyright 2024 Charith Mendis. Powered by Jekyll with al-folio theme.

