Professor: Christos-Alexandros Psomas
University: Purdue University
URL: https://www.alexpsomas.com/
Description: Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
Alex Psomas	
HomeResearchTeachingPeople
	
ALEX PSOMAS

Assistant Professor

Department of Computer Science

Purdue University

Seng-Liang Wang Hall 4566

email: ''apsomas'' at "cs" dot ''purdue'' dot ''edu''

DBLP | Google Scholar

ABOUT

My name is Alexandros Psomas (I mostly go by Alex). I am an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science at Purdue University. My research focuses on the intersection of Computer Science and Economics. I apply tools and insights from computer science to study problems in a variety of economic environments. I am broadly interested in algorithmic economics, artificial intelligence, machine learning, computational social choice and mechanism design, as well as algorithmic game theory and theoretical computer science in general. I am very interested in projects that involve both theory and real-world applications. Examples include collaborations with non-profit organizations such as 412 Food Rescue and the Indy Hunger Network.

I completed my PhD in May 2017 in the Theory of Computation group at UC Berkeley, where I was extremely fortunate to be advised by Christos Papadimitriou. I have worked as a Visiting Researcher in the market algorithms group in Google Research (Mountain View) during the Spring and Summer of 2020. I spent Fall 2019 as a Research Fellow at the Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing. Prior to that I spent two wonderful years (2017-2019) as a postdoctoral researcher in the Computer Science Department at Carnegie Mellon University, hosted by Ariel Procaccia.

My research is funded by a Google Research Scholar Award, a Google AI for Social Good award, a MEGA-ACE grant from the Algorand Foundation, and the NSF CAREER Award.

NEWS

April 2024: Talking about dynamic fair division and our work with the Indy Hunger Network at Brown's CS Theory Seminar (video) and MIT's Algorithms & Complexity Seminar.

April 2024: We have launched our automated version of FoodDrop!

March 2024: Talking about dynamic fair division and our work with the Indy Hunger Network in the Mathematics for Humanity Learning Seminar.

Sept 2023: Our work on combating food insecurity using artificial intelligence was covered by IOWA PBS and Purdue University News!

Sept 2023: Talking about AI for Social Good in the 2nd annual Cyberinfrastructure Symposium.

Aug 2023: Our work with Indy Hunger Network (generously funded by Google) was featured in Purdue today!

April 2023: Honored to receive Google's AI For Social Good Award! Thank you Google!

Page updated
Google Sites
Report abuse

