Professor: Christopher J. Rozell
University: Georgia Institute of Technology
URL: https://siplab.gatech.edu/rozell.html
Description: Christopher J. Rozell
Julian T. Hightower Chaired Professor of Electrical & Computer Engineering
home
publications
people
software

<< return to people

biography
Curriculum vitae (pdf)
Google Scholar profile
Official university profile

Email: crozell@gatech.edu
Twitter: @crozSciTech
LinkedIn




Dr. Christopher J. Rozell is a researcher and educator advancing the field of computational neuroengineering with a broad and interdisciplinary perspective. His research combines aspects of neuroscience, neuroengineering, feedback control, and machine learning to advance our understanding of brain function, the design of effective interventions, and the development of AI systems. The innovations from his 25 years of research experience range from novel neuromodulation therapies for psychiatric disorders such as treatment resistant depression to the innovation of next-generation hyper-efficient computing approaches based on models of biological neural networks. In addition to his technical contributions, Dr. Rozell's scholarly activity also includes research and creative work that advances our understanding of the societal impacts of emerging areas such as neurotechnology and AI.

Dr. Rozell is currently the Julian T. Hightower Chaired Professor of Electrical & Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology, where he serves on the executive committee for the Neuro Next Initiative. He also holds courtesy appointments in the Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering and in the School of Interactive Computing. Dr. Rozell is proud to be a first-generation scholar who is committed to increasing access in our educational institutions and scientific communities. He is a co-founder and member of the Board of Directors of Neuromatch, Inc., a global nonprofit increasing access to scientific knowledge through inclusive conferences and summer schools.

Dr. Rozell earned a B.S.E. degree in Computer Engineering and a B.F.A. degree in Music (Performing Arts Technology) in 2000 from the University of Michigan. He attended graduate school at Rice University, completing the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Electrical Engineering in 2002 and 2007, respectively. Following graduate school he joined the Redwood Center for Theoretical Neuroscience at the University of California, Berkeley as a postdoctoral scholar. The research group he founded (Structured Information for Precision Neuroengineering Lab -- SIPLab) trains scholars who go on to careers in academic, industry and government settings, and the research of the lab has been funded by sources including the National Institutes of Health BRAIN Initiative, the National Science Foundation, the Department of Defense, and the James S. McDonnell Foundation. In 2014, Dr. Rozell was one of six international recipients of the Scholar Award in Studying Complex Systems from the James S. McDonnell Foundation 21st Century Science Initiative, as well as receiving a National Science Foundation CAREER Award. In addition to his research activity, Dr. Rozell has received a number of awards recognizing excellence in teaching and outreach, including the Class of 1940 W. Howard Ector Outstanding Teacher Award (2019; the highest teaching award at GT), the CETL/BP Junior Faculty Teaching Excellence Award (2013), the Student Recognition of Excellence in Teaching: Class of 1934 Award (2020), and the ECE Outreach Award (2020).

<< return to people

Georgia Institute of Technology
School of Electrical and Computer Engineering

