Professor: Christopher Kanan
University: University of Rochester
URL: http://www.chriskanan.com/
Description: Christopher Kanan
Advancing AI using deep learning.
Twitter Vimeo Google+ Dribble LinkedIn
ABOUT
PUBLICATIONS
C.V.
LAB
TEACHING
DATASETS
BLOG
CONSULTING
OTHER
CONTACT
About Christopher Kanan

If interested in joining my lab as a PhD student, please click here.

I’m a tenured Associate Professor of Computer Science at the University of Rochester. I have secondary appointments in Brain and Cognitive Sciences, The Goergen Institute for Data Science, and The Center for Visual Science. My lab’s main focus is basic research in deep learning, especially prerequisite capabilities for artificial general intelligence (AGI). I have worked on deep continual learning, multi-modal scene understanding, visual question answering, medical computer vision (computational pathology and radiology), self-supervised learning, semantic segmentation, object recognition, object detection, active vision, object tracking, and more. Beyond AI, I also have a background in cognitive science, primate vision, theoretical neuroscience, and eye tracking.

From 2018 – 2022, I was a member of Paige’s executive leadership team, where I oversaw AI research activities at the start-up. Paige is revolutionizing pathology and oncology by creating clinical-grade AI systems to help pathologists diagnose cancer. Among other achievements, my team developed Paige Prostate, the first FDA-approved AI system in pathology. I helped grow the company from fewer than 10 employees when I joined to over 180 people. I also led Paige’s patent initiative, and I have over 50 granted patents. Currently, I’m a member of Paige’s Scientific Advisory Board.

Previously, I was a tenured Associate Professor in the Carlson Center for Imaging Science at the Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT). At RIT, I co-founded the Center for Human-aware AI (CHAI), and I served as its Associate Director for four years. I was also a member of RIT’s McNair Scholars Advisory Board, part of RIT’s Division of Diversity and Inclusion. From 2019 – 2022, I was a visiting professor at Cornell Tech in New York City, where I taught a course on Deep Learning for four years to about 100 graduate students annually.

I received my PhD from UC San Diego (UCSD), was a postdoctoral scholar at Caltech, and worked as a scientist at NASA JPL.

See my publications page for links to specific projects, code, and datasets.

Google Scholar | LinkedIn | Twitter | YouTube

Recent News

2024/03: I was elected as a Senior Member of AAAI!
2023/12: My PhD student Robik Shrestha defended his dissertation on VQA and bias robust AI! He is joining Amazon AGI.
2023/09: Won an NSF grant with Dhireesha Kudithipudi and others for $2M!
2023/09: Won a DoE grant with Riccardo Betti and others for $3M to use generative AI to advance nuclear fusion research!
2023/08: Lab alumnus Dr. Ron Kemker won the Harold Brown Award from the USAF!
2022/08: I was honored to be profiled in Quanta Magazine.
2022/07: Our paper on OccamNets was accepted to ECCV-2022 as an Oral!
2022/07: I am now an Associate Professor of Computer Science at the University of Rochester, where I’ll be leading various AI activities!
2022/06: My PhD student Usman Mahmood defended his dissertation on detecting and mitigating bias in AI for radiology!!
2022/06: My PhD student Manoj Acharya defended his dissertation and will be joining Amazon!!
2022/04: My PhD student Tyler Hayes defended her dissertation and will be joining Naver Labs!
2021/09: I am honored to have received an NSF CAREER Award!
2021/09: Led by Cissi Alm, we won an NSF NRT award for $2M to improve graduate student training in AI!
2021/09: Paige Prostate received FDA clearance! I oversaw the AI research activities for the system.
2021/05: I was awarded tenure at RIT and promoted to Associate Professor!
2021/03: With SRI, we won an award from DARPA for Lifelong Learning on Starcraft 2!

Older News
Outreach & Service

For nearly two decades, I’ve endeavored to promote diversity in graduate education. During my time at RIT, I was an advisory board member and faculty mentor for the RIT McNair and LSAMP Scholars programs, which are aimed at preparing first-generation college students and members of underrepresented minority groups for graduate school. I gave workshops on improving grades, conducting research, overcoming challenges, and applying to graduate school. Before joining RIT, I gave talks at the California Forum for Diversity and at several California State Universities to help undergraduates obtain a better idea of how to get into a PhD program and what is expected of them once they are accepted. During my PhD, I was a mentor to high school students at The Preuss School, which serves low income students.

I have been active in organizing academic conferences. I was General Chair for the NSF sponsored 5th Annual inter-Science of Learning Center Conference (iSLC). I was an area chair for ICIP-2017, and I have helped organize workshops at various artificial intelligence conferences.

Biography

I grew up in a tiny town in rural Oklahoma, where I first began to explore artificial intelligence in 1996 by creating “bots” to play online multiplayer computer games in high school. As an undergraduate at Oklahoma State University, I double majored in philosophy and computer science. Subsequently, I earned a M.S. in computer science from the University of Southern California (USC) , with an emphasis in artificial intelligence and neuroscience while working with Michael Arbib, an early pioneer in computational neuroscience and neural networks. I then went on to earn a Ph.D. in computer science at the University of California, San Diego (UCSD), where I was a member of Gary Cottrell’s research group. Afterwards, I became a Caltech Postdoctoral Scholar, where I worked at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) as part of the Maritime and Aerial Perception group in the Robotics and Mobility Section. After eight months, JPL hired me as a Research Technologist, where I helped develop artificial vision systems for autonomous ships using deep learning. In August 2015, I joined the Chester F. Carlson Center for Imaging Science at RIT as a Professor, and I received tenure in 2021. In 2018, I joined Paige as one of the first employees, where I have overseen AI research for building computational pathology systems for improving cancer diagnosis and treatment. Most recently, I joined the University of Rochester as an Associate Professor of Computer Science. I am a recipient of an NSF CAREER award.

© 2024 Christopher Kanan

