Professor: Christopher L. Barrett
University: University of Virginia
URL: https://engineering.virginia.edu/faculty/christopher-l-barrett
Description: Skip Main Navigation
Skip to site alert
Christopher L. Barrett
Menu Secondary
Departments & Programs
News & Events
Offices
Info For
Info For
Search
Submit
Main navigation
Site
Graduate Study
Undergraduate Study
Research
Our Faculty
About Our School
Contact
Email
ChrisBarrett@virginia.edu
Location
North Fork (UVA Discovery Park)
Lab
994 Research Park Blvd., Town Center IV
Town Center IV
4th. Floor
Charlottesville, VA 22911

Breadcrumb
Home
/
Faculty
Christopher L. Barrett
Christopher L. Barrett
Executive Director, Biocomplexity Institute
Distinguished Professor in Biocomplexity, Biocomplexity Institute
Professor of Computer Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science
Google Scholar﻿
COVID-19 Pandemic Response﻿
Biocomplexity Institute﻿
About

Christopher L. Barrett is the inaugural Distinguished Professor in Biocomplexity, Executive Director of the Biocomplexity Institute, and Professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Virginia. He is an interdisciplinary computational scientist who has published more than 100 research articles exploring all aspects of large multi-scale interaction systems. During the past 35 years, Barrett has conceived, founded, and led large interdisciplinary complex systems research projects and organizations, established national and international technology programs, and co-founded organizations for federal agencies such as the Department of Defense, the Department of Energy and the Department of Homeland Security. 

Barrett is the recipient of the 2012–2013 Jubilee Professorship in Computer Science and Engineering at Chalmers University in Göteborg, Sweden and is a member of the 2010 Royal Colloquium for the King of Sweden. He was a Distinguished International Professor at the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm (1997–1998). He has received distinguished research, service, advisory and security awards from the U.S. Navy, Los Alamos National Laboratory, and the Alliance for Transportation Research. He has served as advisor to many organizations, including U.S. government agencies, the Commonwealth of Virginia, and the European Commission. He holds seven patents and has ten pending.

Full Biography  

 
Education

U.S. Navy Aerospace Experimental Psychology, Medical Service Corps Post Ph.D. Certification, 1986

California Institute of Technology, Ph.D. in Bioinformation Systems and Engineering Science, 1985

California Institute of Technology, M.S., Engineering Science, 1983

University of New Mexico, B.S., 1976

"The Biocomplexity Institute encourages formal, analytical and computational methods that unify approaches to disparate problems ranging from biomolecular science to public policy. Our transdisciplinary teams of research scientists create analytical innovations that extend human capability to understand and manage massive interdependencies in the real world. Such problems do not normally conform to disciplinary boundaries or convenient scales; they do not conform to distinctions between engineering and basic science. However, scientific pursuit of ever-improving approaches to these complex problems - as they occur - is critical to human survival. "

Christopher L. Barrett
Executive Director, Biocomplexity Institute and Initiative
Research Interests
Large multi-scale, high-performance modeling and simulation systems grounded in computational and information sciences spanning mathematical, biological, psychological and social sciences.
Dynamical Networks called Sequential/Graphical systems grounded in topics ranging from RNA to social dynamics and policy.
Theoretical and applied research in intelligent systems.
Translational research-to-application analytics and machine intelligence.
Dynamical Networks
Theoretical and Applied Research Intelligent Systems
Translational Research-to-Application Analytics
Artificial Intelligence
Machine Learning
Selected Publications
Sequence-structure relations of biopolymers.
Barrett C, Huang F, Reidys C. Bioinformatics, 33 (3):382–389. (2018)
Abs
Multiplicity of phenotypes and RNA evolution.
Rezazadegan R, Barrett C, Reidys C. Journal of Theoretical Biology, 447:139–46. (2018)
Abs
A Simulation Environment for the Dynamic Evaluation of Disaster Preparedness Policies and Interventions.
Lewis B, Swarup S, Bisset K, Eubank S, Marathe M, Barrett C. Journal of Public Health Management and Practice, 19: S42-S48. (2013)
Abs
Human Initiated Cascading Failures in Societal Infrastructures.
Barrett C, Channakeshava K, Huang F, Kim J, Marathe A, Marathe M, Pei G, Saha S, Subbiah R, Vullikanti a Plos One, 7(10): E45406. (2012)
Abs
Economic and social impact of influenza mitigation strategies by demographic class.
Barrett C, Bisset K, Leidig J, Marathe A, Marathe M Epidemics Ournal, 3(1):19-31. (2011)
Abs
Predecessor existence problems for finite discrete dynamical systems.
Barrett C, Hunt III H, Marathe M, Ravi S, Rosenkrantz D, Stearns R, Thakur M. Theoretical Computer Science, 386(1–2):3–37. (2007)
Abs
Complexity of reachability problems for finite discrete dynamical systems.
Barrett C, Hunt III H, Marathe, M, Ravi, S, Rosenkrantz, D, Stearns, R Journal of Computer and System Sciences, 72(8):1317–1345. (2006)
Abs
The distance-2 matching problem and its relationship to the MAC-layer capacity of ad hoc wireless networks.
Balakrishnan H, Barrett C, Vullikanti A, Marathe M, Thite S Ieee Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, 22(6):1069-1079. (2004)
Abs
Reachability problems for sequential dynamical systems with threshold functions.
Barrett C, Hunt III Hb, Marathe M, Ravi S, Rosenkrantz D, Stearns R Theoretical Computer Science, 295(1–3): 41–64. (2003)
Abs
TRANSIMS: Transportation analysis simulation system. Los Alamos National Laboratory Unclassified.
Report (Unclassified). Barrett C, Beckman R, Berkbigler K, Bisset K, Bush B, Campbell K, Marathe M (2001).
Elements of a theory of simulation II: sequential dynamical systems.
Barrett C, Mortveit H, Reidys C Applied Mathematics and Computation, 107(2-3):121-136.(2000)
Abs
Formal language constrained path problems.
Siam Journal of Computing Barrett C, Jacob R, Marathe M , 30(3):809–837.(2000)
Abs
Using Microsimulation Feedback For Trip Adaptation For Realistic Traffic In Dallas.
Nagel K, Barrett C International Journal of Modern Physics C, 08(03):505-525.(1997)
Abs
Awards
Virginia Academy of Science, Engineering, and Medicine
2021
Endowed Distinguished Professor of Biocomplexity, University of Virginia
2019
Jubilee Distinguished Professor of Computer Science at Chalmers University, Göteborg, Sweden
2012–2013
Distinguished Achievement Award, Los Alamos National Laboratory
1995
Meritorious Service Medal (U.S. Navy) for research and development in automated assisted reasoning systems for naval aircraft
1988
Christopher L. Barrett
UVA Engineers Make the World a Better Place: Pursuing better health care, designing the future of technology and creating sustainable solutions to society's challenges.
Social
Instagram
facebook
YouTube
LinkedIn
x
Quick
APPLY
VISIT
GIVE
VIRGINIA.EDU
Footer
Office Directory
Jobs@UVA
News
Events
Current Grads
Current Undergrads
Diversity
Thornton Hall, 351 McCormick Road,
Charlottesville, VA 22904
Phone: 
(434) 924-3072
Utility
Accessibility
Media
Non-Discrimination Policy
Privacy Policy

© 2024 University of Virginia School of Engineering and Applied Science

