Professor: Christian Kümmerle
University: UNC - Charlotte
URL: http://ckuemmerle.com/
Description: Christian Kümmerle
Home
Team
Publications
Teaching
Software
Contact
Christian Kümmerle

Assistant Professor
Co-Director of CharMLab

Department of Computer Science
College of Computing and Informatics

University of North Carolina at Charlotte

I am an Assistant Professor in Computer Science at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte and Co-Director of the Charlotte Machine Learning Lab. Prior to joining UNC Charlotte, I was a Postdoctoral Fellow at the Department of Applied Mathematics and Statistics at Johns Hopkins University (mentored by Mauro Maggioni) after completing a Ph.D. in Mathematics at Technical University of Munich in 2019, advised by Felix Krahmer. I obtained M.Sc. and B.Sc. degrees in Mathematics from TU Munich in 2015 and 2013.

My research focuses on scalable, efficient and reliable algorithms and models for machine learning and data science. I am interested in the theory and practice of addressing computational and statistical challenges arising from models involving sparsity, graph or low-rank structures with efficient optimization methods. To this end, I leverage mathematics ranging from high-dimensional probability, applied and computational harmonic analysis, non-convex optimization to numerical linear algebra in my research.

I am also working on novel algorithms for improved payment delivery and capital allocation in payment channel networks such as the Lightning Network, which is a second-layer protocol for the Bitcoin cryptocurrency.

While I am currently not actively seeking to accept new Ph.D. students, I am always willing to consider exceptional candidates. Furthermore, I am always interested in supervising individual research projects and graduation theses with undergraduate and master’s students. For undergraduate students, suitable course-credit based options include ITCS 4750, ITSC 4850, ITSC 4990, ITSC 4991 or the projects I offer at the Office of Undergraduate Research (which are typically paid). For master’s students, suitable research project options include the individual study modules ITCS 6880, ITCS 6881 and ITCS 6882 and the computer science thesis ITCS 6991. Please contact me by email or in person if you are interested.

In Fall 2023, I am teaching a graduate course on Optimization for Machine Learning and Data Science. The targeted audience for this course are master’s and Ph.D. students in computer science, mathematics, data science and electrical engineering. Feel free to reach out for me if you have any questions.

My last name can also be written as Kuemmerle.

Featured Publications
Quickly discover relevant content in the filterable publication list.
 Christian Kümmerle, Johannes Maly (2023). Recovering Simultaneously Structured Data via Non-Convex Iteratively Reweighted Least Squares. NeurIPS 2023.

PDF Cite Code Poster Slides arXiv OpenReview

 Liangzu Peng, Christian Kümmerle, René Vidal (2023). On the Convergence of IRLS and Its Variants in Outlier-Robust Estimation. CVPR 2023 (Highlighted, top 2.5% of submitted papers).

PDF Cite Code Poster Slides PDF w/ supplementary material

 Liangzu Peng, Christian Kümmerle, René Vidal (2022). Global Linear and Local Superlinear Convergence of IRLS for Non-Smooth Robust Regression. NeurIPS 2022.

PDF Cite Code Poster arXiv OpenReview

 Olivier Guédon, Felix Krahmer, Christian Kümmerle, Shahar Mendelson, Holger Rauhut (2022). On the geometry of polytopes generated by heavy-tailed random vectors. Commun. Contemp. Math., 24(03), 2150056.

PDF Cite arXiv

 Christian Kümmerle, Claudio Mayrink Verdun, Dominik Stöger (2021). Iteratively Reweighted Least Squares for Basis Pursuit with Global Linear Convergence Rate. NeurIPS 2021 (Spotlight, top 3% of submitted papers).

PDF Cite Link to Proceedings arXiv OpenReview

 Christian Kümmerle, Claudio Mayrink Verdun (2021). A Scalable Second Order Method for Ill-Conditioned Matrix Completion from Few Samples. ICML 2021.

PDF Cite Code Poster Link to Proceedings Slides

Contact
Name
Email
Message
Send
kuemmerle@charlotte.edu
+1 (704) 687-1904
Woodward 410D, Department of Computer Science, 9201 University City Blvd, Charlotte, NC 28223

© 2022 Christian Kümmerle

Published with Wowchemy — the free, open source website builder that empowers creators.

