Professor: Christopher M. Reardon
University: University of Denver
URL: https://ritchieschool.du.edu/about/people/christopher-m-reardon
Description: We use essential cookies to make our site work. With your consent, we may also use non-essential cookies to improve user experience and analyze website traffic. By clicking “Accept,” you agree to our website's cookie use as described in our Cookie Policy. You can change your cookie settings at any time by clicking “Preferences.”
Preferences
Decline
Accept

Skip to Content

APPLY
REQUEST INFO
VIRTUAL VISIT
GIVE
RESOURCES FOR
DU WEBSITES
SEARCH
Daniel Felix Ritchie School of
Engineering & Computer Science

Main navigation

Admission & Aid
Academics & Education
Research & Innovation
About

 BACK

Christopher M. Reardon
Assistant Professor, Computer Science
Faculty
Ritchie School of Engineering and Computer Science
Department of Computer Science

 christopher.reardon@du.edu

 303-871-3267 (Office)

 http://reardonrobotics.com

 http://arise-lab.com

 Personal

Engineering & Computer Science, 2155 East Wesley Avenue Denver, CO 80208

Background
Research
Publications
What I do
I am an assistant professor in the department of Computer Science. My research mission is to enable robust human-robot teaming in real-world environments through AI and multimodal interaction.
Specialization(s)

computer science, Robotics, AI

Professional Biography
Christopher Reardon, PhD, is a computer scientist and experimental roboticist. He joined the faculty at the University of Denver in late 2020 as an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science at the Ritchie School of Engineering and Computer Science.

Prior joining DU, Dr. Reardon spent over four and a half years as a research scientist at the U.S. Army Research Laboratory, where his research focused on enabling better human-robot teaming for autonomous mobility and maneuver contexts.

Dr. Reardon has published over 25 peer-reviewed journal and conference articles to date. He is an IEEE Senior Member. He is actively involved in the greater robotics research community, regularly serving in organizational leadership roles at conferences and workshops.
Degree(s)
Ph.D., Computer Science, University of Tennessee, 2016
MS, Computer Science, University of Tennessee, 2008
BS, Computer Science, Berry College, 2002
Professional Affiliations
Senior member, IEEE

GIVE

APPLY

VISIT US

303-871-3787

Daniel Felix Ritchie School of Engineering & Computer Science

University of Denver

2155 E. Wesley Ave.

Denver, CO 80210

Follow the Ritchie School

Maps
Jobs
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Consent Preferences
Copyright ©2024 | All Rights Reserved | Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Institution

