Professor: Dakuo Wang
University: Northeastern University
URL: https://dakuowang.com/
Description: Dakuo Wang
Home
News
Publications
Patents
CV
Dakuo Wang
Associate Professor
Northeastern University
About Me

Dakuo Wang is an Associate Professor at Northeastern University, jointly appointed at Khoury College of Computer Sciences and the College of Arts, Media and Design. His research lies at the intersection of human-computer interaction (HCI) and artificial intelligence (AI), with a focus on the exploration, development, and evaluation of human-centered AI (HCAI) systems. The overarching goal is to democratize AI for every person and every organization, so that they can access their own AI and collaborate with these real-world AI systems (human-AI collaboration).

Before joining Northeastern, Dakuo was a Senior Staff Member at IBM Research, Principal Investigator at MIT-IBM Watson AI Lab, and a Visiting Scholar at Stanford Institute for Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence. He got his Ph.D. from the University of California Irvine (advisor: Judith Olson and Gary Olson). He has worked as a designer, researcher, and engineer in the U.S., China, and France. He serves in organizing committees, program committees, and editorial boards for a variety of venues, and ACM has recognized him as an ACM Distinguished Speaker.

I am falling behind in updating my own publications; Google Scholar does a better job than I do.

Interests
Human Computer Interaction
Human-AI Collaboration
Natural Language Processing
Health Informatics
Data Science
Computer-Supported Cooperative Work
Education

PhD in Information and Computer Sciences

University of California Irvine

MS in Electrical and Computer Engineering

University of California Irvine

MS in Information System

École centrale d’électronique, Paris

BS in Computer Science

Beijing University of Technology

Publications
Xuye Liu, Dakuo Wang, April Wang, Lingfei Wu (2021). HAConvGNN: Hierarchical Attention Based Convolutional Graph Neural Network for Code Documentation Generation in Jupyter Notebooks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.01002.

PDF Cite

Dakuo Wang, Liuping Wang, Zhan Zhang, Ding Wang, Haiyi Zhu, Yvonne Gao, Xiangmin Fan, Feng Tian (2021). " Brilliant AI Doctor" in Rural China: Tensions and Challenges in AI-Powered CDSS Deployment. Proceedings of the CHI'21.

PDF Cite

Dakuo Wang, Josh Andres, Justin Weisz, Erick Oduor, Casey Dugan (2021). AutoDS: Towards Human-Centered Automation of Data Science. Proceeding of CHI'21.

PDF Cite

Liuping Wang, Dakuo Wang, Feng Tian, Zhenhui Peng, Xiangmin Fan, Zhan Zhang, Shuai Ma, Mo Yu, Xiaojuan Ma, Hongan Wang (2021). CASS: Towards Building a Social-Support Chatbot for Online Health Community. Proceedings of the CSCW'21.

PDF Cite

April Yi Wang, Dakuo Wang, Jaimie Drozdal, Michael Muller, Soya Park, Justin D Weisz, Xuye Liu, Lingfei Wu, Casey Dugan (2021). Themisto: Towards Automated Documentation Generation in Computational Notebooks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2102.12592.

Cite

SEE ALL PUBLICATIONS 

© 2024 Dakuo Wang

Published with Wowchemy — the free, open source website builder that empowers creators.

