Professor: Daniel Wong 0001
University: Univ. of California - Riverside
URL: http://www.danielwong.org/
Description: Daniel Wong ☰
×
Home
Publications
SoCAL Research
Teaching
Service
News
CV
Daniel Wong
Associate Professor, Department of Electrical and Engineering
Cooperating Faculty, Department of Computer Science and Engineering
Vice-Chair and Graduate Advisor, Computer Engineering Program
University of California, Riverside

Email: danwong@ucr.edu
Phone: (951) 827-2986
Office: 425 Winston Chung Hall (WCH)
Mail: 900 University Ave., Riverside, CA 92521
Google Scholar Profile

Biography

Daniel Wong is an Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of California, Riverside. His research spans Computer Architecture, High Performance Computing, and Warehouse-scale Computing. His current research focuses on energy efficient and high performance computing systems from datacenter scale to micro-architectures, with a recent focus on Systems for ML.

Daniel completed his PhD in Electrical Engineering at the University of Southern California (USC) working with Professor Murali Annavaram in the Super Computing In Pocket (SCIP) Research Group. He was supported through the Provost's PhD Fellowship. He earned his BS in Computer Engineering and Computer Science and MS in Electrical Engineering, all from USC.

In the past he also worked on Cyber Security and Non-volatile memory management at Lawrence Livermore National Labs and Emerging Non-volatile memory architecture at Samsung Semiconductor, Inc. R&D. While at USC, he also worked on applications of Embedded Systems for Robots, and Pinball machines.

Awards

NSF CAREER Award, 2021
UC Regents’ Faculty Fellowships, 2018
IEEE Micro Top Picks from the Computer Architecture Conferences of 2012
Provost's PhD Fellowship, University of Southern California, 2009-2013
Rose Hills Undergraduate Summer Research Fellowship, 2009
Rose Hills Foundation Scholarship, 2008


Our work is generously supported by the following sponsors:

   

Last edited on March 30th 2024 03:00AM (Time Zone: EDT).
Powered by jemdoc + new design.

