Professor: Daniel B. Larremore
University: University of Colorado Boulder
URL: http://danlarremore.com/
Description: Find Answers

Get Study Tools

Ask Question
Login
Sign Up
HOME

DANIEL B. LARREMORE

Daniel B. Larremore

My main work is based on developing methods of networks, dynamical systems, and statistical inference, to solve problems in social and biological systems. Everything I do is related to solving math problems in different areas. I try to keep a tight loop between data and theory, and learn a lot from confronting models and algorithms with real problems.

For over 20 years I have been actively involved in the development of solutions for all sorts of problems, including:Configuring random graph models with fixed degree sequences, community detection, link prediction, and layer interdependence in multilayer networks, Efficiently inferring community structure in bipartite networks, Predicting criticality and dynamic range in complex networks, and much more.

My work continues to be published and recognized by the scientific community. I spent three years studying the genetic epidemiology of malaria in the Center for Communicable Disease Dynamics. The var genes of the malaria parasite P. falciparum evolve according to complicated and unknown rules, with selective pressures at multiple scales both within hosts and between hosts. I create and use mathematical tools to understand the structural and evolutionary constraints on var gene evolution, and their relationships with parasite virulence, population structure, and epidemiology.

Everything I do is related to math. I’ve come across different resources during my work and while working with my students. Some swift solutions like Plainmath helped me in my projects more than once. I can be proud that I’m involved in developing a strong student community for Plainmath, a platform that lets students share their math problems and get comments and solutions on them. I believe it’s one of the most efficient ways to study and perceive new info there is at the moment.

Educating the future generation is one of my primary goals right now. Plainmath is the best way to share my knowledge on the web to any student that wants to reach it. It is a modern solution to the problems of remote learning. It can act as an online tutor. The same way I spend at least 2 hours every day answering questions, my students keep on with the community and leave any math related questions they have on Plainmath and get their answers almost instantly.The platform allows students from all over the world to connect and find expertise even in the most complicated math fields like the ones I’ve spent all my life studying. From basic problems to the most comprehensive math disciplines.

During the course of my studies and researching in the field of Maths and STEM subjects, I also came across the Mountain Heights Academy, which is a wonderful online charter high school aimed at students across the state of Utah. What makes it unique is that it offers open education resources and can also help parents and educators looking for assistance. It has a list of helpful tools to help you track your progress and navigate through the parts that need additional repeating. When you want to take your studies to another level, I recommend taking a closer look at this school and the free courses that it offers.

As you browse through the list of STEM subjects, you will be able to find anything from complete lessons to quizzes and friendly suggestions. The older courses on offer are only focused on the course content, yet the newer offerings are more interactive. I love their take on STEM subjects as they have Physics, Computer Science, Secondary Math, Algebra, Mathematics Essentials, and the unique Earth Systems Science, which makes learning Math even more inspiring. The Computer Science course also explains why Math can be helpful when dealing with things like medical research, engineering, animation, programming, and the development of high-end video games.

Take your time to check out this great online school as you will be able to approach your Math homework and studies in a totally different way. I always tell both parents and students that calculations and mathematical analysis should not be overly complex because one has to feel inspired and motivated to learn. Turning to STEM subjects and open educational materials is the best way to go. While we are at it, take a look at the list of topics and disciplines that are covered by the PlainMath.

High school statistics
Scatterplots
Two-way tables
Study design
Normal distributions
High school probability
Probability
Binomial probability
Pre-Algebra
Factors and multiples
Fractions
Decimals
Algebra I
Algebra foundations
Linear equations & graphs
Forms of linear equations
Systems of equations
Functions
Exponents & radicals
Exponential growth & decay
Quadratics
Algebra II
Polynomial arithmetic
Polynomial factorization
Polynomial graphs
Exponential models
Logarithms
Transformations of functions
Equations
Modeling
Rational functions
Precalculus
Polynomials
Composite functions
Trigonometry
Matrices
Series
Conic sections
Probability and combinatorics
Calculus 1
Limits and continuity
Derivatives
Integrals
Calculus 2
Differential equations
Parametric equations
Series
High school geometry
Performing transformations
Similarity
Analytic geometry
Conic sections
Circles
Solid geometry
Trigonometry
Right triangles and trigonometry
Non-right triangles and trigonometry
Trigonometric functions
College Statistics
Analyzing categorical data
Summarizing quantitative data
Modeling data distributions
Study design
Random variables
Sampling distributions
Confidence intervals
Upper level probability
Linear algebra
Vectors and spaces
Matrix transformations
Trigonometry
Right triangles and trigonometry
Non-right triangles and trigonometry
Trigonometric functions
Abstract algebra
College algebra
Advanced Math
Integral Calculus
Integrals
Applications of integrals
Parametric equations
Differential equations
First order differential equations
Second order linear equations
Laplace transform
Discrete math
Multivariable calculus
Multivariable functions
Green's, Stokes', and the divergence theorem

Product

High School Questions
College Questions
Math Solver
Top Questions
Top Questions 2

Company

About us
Term of Service
Privacy
Payment Policy
Honor

Connect with us

Contact us
Youtube
Facebook

Get Plainmath App

Google Play

E-mail us: support@plainmath.org

Our Service is useful for:

Plainmath is a platform aimed to help users to understand how to solve math problems by providing accumulated knowledge on different topics and accessible examples.

2023 Plainmath. All rights reserved

