Professor: David B. Leake
University: Indiana University
URL: https://www.cs.indiana.edu/~leake
Description: 

David B. Leake

Professor of Computer Science
The Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering Indiana University
Member of the IU Cognitive Science faculty
Ph.D., Yale University, 1990

 Editor Emeritus, AI Magazine. Editor in Chief, 1999-2016.

Short biographical sketch of David Leake.

David Leake's Google Scholar profile

https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8666-3416
Research Interests
Artificial intelligence and cognitive science, including case-based reasoning, context, explanation, human-centered computing, intelligent information systems, intelligent user interfaces, introspective reasoning, multistrategy learning, and neuro-symbolic AI.
Publications
Papers
Electronic reprints of selected papers are available on the Web.
Books

  

Leake, D. B., editor. (1996) Case-Based Reasoning: Experiences, Lessons, and Future Directions. Menlo Park, CA: AAAI Press/MIT Press, Menlo Park, CA. The overview chapter, CBR in Context: The Present and Future is available. This book can be ordered online from the MIT Press.

Ram, A. and Leake, D. B., editors. (1995). Goal-Driven Learning. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press/Bradford Books. A condensation of the introductory chapter is available. This book can be ordered online from the MIT Press.

Leake, D. B. (1992). Evaluating Explanations: A Content Theory. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates. A brief description and table of contents are available.

Professional service
Editor Emeritus of AI Magazine; past member of the editorial board of the The Journal of the Learning Sciences and the International Journal of Expert Systems Research and Applications. Co-editor of special issue Maintaining Case-Based Reasoning Systems of Computational Intelligence. Program co-Chair for the Fifth International and Interdisciplinary Conference on Modeling and Using Context (CONTEXT'05), Paris, France; Chair for the 2003 International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces (IUI 2003), Miami Beach, FL, U.S.A.; Short Paper and Demonstration Chair for the 2002 International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces (IUI 2002), San Francisco, CA, U.S.A. Chair of the 1998 and 1999 Workshop Program of the AAAI National Conference on Artificial Intelligence and co-chair of the Second International Conference on Case-Based Reasoning (ICCBR-97). Program committee member for numerous international and national conferences.
Pages for Sample Past Projects
Pages are available for the SWALE project (creative case-based explanation) and the Stamping Advisor project (integrated intelligent case-based design support and knowledge management).
Additional Resources
The IUCBRF Java case-based reasoning framework .
The CBR/CIP archive of pedagogical "micro-versions" of conceptual information processing and CBR systems.
A bibtex bibliography of AI and cognitive science publications with approximately 1600 entries, especially in case-based reasoning.
The CmapTools knowledge construction toolkit at the Institute for Human and Machine Cognition (IHMC).
The Travel Agents Case Base (ascii version), often used for testing CBR systems. This was available from the AI-CBR case-base archive, but the link there appears to non-functional.
Acknowledgments
Support from Indiana University, the Knowledge Models and Cognitive Systems Program of the IRIS division of the National Science Foundation , the NASA Ames Research Center, and the Office of Naval Research is gratefully acknowledged.
Contact information
Please note that I am not involved in graduate student admissions, which are handled by a departmental committee. For admissions questions, please first check the extensive on-line admissions information. If your question is not answered there, for fastest response please send e-mail to gradvise at cs.indiana.edu (with the obvious change). I am unable to consider prospective students for research assistantships until they have completed at least a 1-semester independent research course with me.

My email address is my last name with domain iu.edu

Office phone:  +1 812 855-9756
Departmental phone:  +1 812 855-6486
Departmental fax: +1 812 856-1995 (please include cover page addressed
to me and email me that fax has been sent)


Office: Luddy Hall 3024
Home page: https://homes.luddy.indiana.edu/leake (this page)
Office hours

Postal and FedEx address

The Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering
Indiana University
Luddy Hall, 700 North Woodlawn Avenue
Bloomington, IN 47408
U.S.A.

ICCBR 2022, the Twenty-Nineth International Conference on Case-Based Reasoning, will be held 12-15 September 2022 in Nancy, France.

