Professor: Deming Chen
University: Univ. of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
URL: https://www.ece.illinois.edu/directory/profile/dchen
Description: Skip To Content (Alt+0)
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS URBANA-CHAMPAIGN
Apply
Give
My.ECE
The Grainger College of Engineering
Electrical & Computer Engineering
Search
About
Building Hours

Monday - Friday: 7 a.m. to 8 p.m.
Saturday: 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Sunday: Closed

Where is it?

Facts & Rankings
Undergraduate Degree History
History
Buildings & Facilities
Café
Electronics Services Shop
Supply Center
Jobs
Faculty (Tenure Track)
Teaching Faculty (Open Rank)
Calendars
All Events
Colloquium
Explorations
One Year Anniversary of ECE Building Zero-Net Energy
Saturday Engineering for Everyone
Directory
All Faculty
Department Faculty
Affiliates
Adjuncts
Emeritus Faculty
Researchers
Chairs, Professorships, and Faculty Scholars
Staff
Graduate Students
Services Areas and Offices
Teaching Awards
Admissions
Ready to apply?
Your path to ECE at Illinois begins here.

Start Here

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Admission Decisions
Admissions Requirements and Process
Information and Deadlines
M.Eng. Degree
M.S. Admissions
Ph.D. Admissions
Transfer Students
Transfer Credit and Graduation Checks
Plan Your Visit
Why ECE at Illinois?
Cost Comparison
Graduate Research
Honors Programs
Rankings and Statistics
Salary Averages
Scholarships, Fellowships, and Awards
Student Organizations
Study Abroad
Undergraduate Research
Become an Electrical or Computer Engineer
Academics
Ready to apply?
Your path to ECE at Illinois begins here.

Start Here

Undergraduate Program
Curricula
For Freshmen
ECE Minor
Subdisciplines
ECE Advising Office
Scholarships and Awards
Independent Study Funding
Leung Student Venture Fund Award
Honors at Graduation
Undergraduate Research
Study abroad
Graduate Program
Master of Engineering Study Manual (M.Eng)
Master of Engineering Online Study Manual (M.Eng)
M.Eng Degree
M.Eng Online Degree
Ph.D. Program
MS and PhD Study Manual
Graduate Student Awards
Graduate Student Fellowships
Graduate Research
Courses and Prerequisites
By Subject Area
Advising
Student Research
Instructional Labs
ECE Seminars
Student Organizations
ABET Accreditation
Research
Explore our core visionary research areas conducted by world-renowned faculty.

Learn More

Featured Research Areas
Biomedical imaging, bioengineering, and acoustics
Circuits
Communications and control
Computing systems hardware and software
Data science and signal processing
Electromagnetics, optics, and remote sensing
Microelectronics and photonics
Nanotechnology
Networking and distributed computing
Power and energy systems
Reliable and secure computing systems
Crosscutting Research Themes
Artificial Intelligence and Autonomous Systems
Bioelectronics and Bioinformatics
Data/Information Science and Systems
Electronics, Plasmonics, and Photonics
Energy
Research Centers & Groups
News

Chen comments on taming the Wild West of AI-generated search results

NewsJuly 23, 2024
Videos
Media Mentions
Alumni News
10 Answers
Field Report
Featured Experts
Media Contact
Resonance
Corporate
Learn how our students and faculty can be a powerful asset to your organization.

Partner with Us

Corporate Student Events
CS-ECE Corporate Connection
Donate Materials
ECE Explorations
Events
Scholarships, Fellowships and Awards
Senior Design
Corporate Days
Event Photos
Logistics Info
Tech Talks
Event Photos
Logistics Info
Alumni
Contact Us

Nikki Slack
Alumni & Donor Relations Coordinator
1070 ECE Building
(217) 265-4317
nslack@illinois.edu

Alumni Awards
Distinguished Alumni Awards
Marcia Peterman ECE Award
Young Alumni Achievement Award
Alumni Board
Past Board Members
Past Graduate Student Representatives
Alumni Events
Alumni News
Virtual Yearbook
Give Back
Class of 2024
Plan Your Visit
Stay Connected
Giving
Contact Us

Heather Vazquez
Senior Director of Advancement
1060 ECE Building
(217) 333-2517
hfv@illinois.edu

ECE Visionary Scholarship Donors
Ways to Give
Giving Stories
Endowments
Inclusion
Broadening Participation in ECE
Student Wellness Resources
HomeAboutDirectoryAll Faculty
Deming Chen
Deming Chen
Abel Bliss Professor of Engineering
Professor
(217) 244-3922
dchen@illinois.edu
250 Coordinated Science Lab
For More Information
Professor Chen's Home Page
Education
Ph.D. in Computer Science, University of California at Los Angeles, 2005
B.S. Computer Science, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 1995
Biography

Dr. Deming Chen obtained his BS in computer science from University of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in 1995, and his MS and PhD in computer science from University of California at Los Angeles in 2001 and 2005 respectively. He worked as a software engineer between 1995-1999 and 2001-2002. He joined the ECE department of University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 2005 and has been a full professor in the same department since 2015. He is a research professor in the Coordinated Science Laboratory and an affiliate professor in the CS department. His current research interests include reconfigurable computing, cloud computing, system-level and high-level synthesis, machine learning and IoT, and hardware security. He has given more than 150 invited talks sharing these research results worldwide.

Dr. Chen has been a technical committee member for a series of top conferences and symposia on EDA, FPGA, low-power design, and embedded systems design. He has also served as General or TPC Chair, Track Chair, Session Chair, Panelist, Panel Organizer, or Moderator for many of these conferences. He has been an associated editor for IEEE TCAD, ACM TODAES, IEEE TVLSI, ACM TRETS, IEEE TCAS-I and TCAS-II, IEEE Design & Test, IET Cyber-Physical Systems, JCSC, and JOLPE. He obtained the Achievement Award for Excellent Teamwork from Aplus Design Technologies in 2001, the Arnold O. Beckman Research Award from UIUC in 2007, the NSF CAREER Award in 2008, ten Best Paper Awards, a TCFPGA Hall-of-Fame paper award, and a few Best Poster Awards. He also received the ACM SIGDA Outstanding New Faculty Award in 2010, IBM Faculty Award in 2014 and 2015, and Google Faculty Award in 2020. In 2017 and 2019 respectively, he led a team to win the First Place Winner Award of DAC International System Design Contest. He is the Donald Willett Faculty Scholar and the Abel Bliss Professor of the Grainger College of Engineering, an IEEE Fellow, an ACM Distinguished Speaker, and the Editor-in-Chief of ACM Transactions on Reconfigurable Technology and Systems (TRETS). He is the Director of the AMD-Xilinx Center of Excellence and the Hybrid Cloud Thrust Co-lead in the IBM-Illinois Discovery Accelerator Institute. He has given a series of Keynote or Plenary speeches at various conferences. He is also included in the List of Teachers Ranked as Excellent in 2008 and 2017 from UIUC.

Dr. Chen was involved in several startup companies. He implemented his published algorithm on CPLD technology mapping when he was a software engineer in Aplus Design Technologies, Inc. in 2001, and the software was exclusively licensed by Altera (now part of Intel) and distributed to many customers of Altera worldwide. He is one of the inventors of the xPilot High Level Synthesis package developed at UCLA, which was licensed to AutoESL Design Technologies, Inc. Aplus was acquired by Magma in 2003, and AutoESL was acquired by Xilinx in 2011. In 2016, he co-founded a new startup, Inspirit IoT, Inc.

Professional Highlights
New! ISDC: ISDC is a novel feedback-guided iterative system of difference constraints (SDC) scheduling algorithm for high-level synthesis (HLS). ISDC leverages subgraph extraction-based low-level feedback from downstream tools like logic synthesizers to iteratively refine HLS scheduling. Technical innovations include: (1) An enhanced SDC formulation that effectively integrates low-level feedback into the linear-programming (LP) problem; (2) A fanout and window-based subgraph extraction mechanism driving the feedback cycle; (3) A no-human-in-loop ISDC flow compatible with a wide range of downstream tools and process design kits (PDKs). Evaluation shows that ISDC reduces register usage by 28.5% against an industrial-strength open-source HLS tool. Available since 2024. Download: https://github.com/google/xls
NEW! PandoGen: An ability to forecast future viral individuals at the sequence level enables advance preparation by characterizing the sequences and closing vulnerabilities in current preventative and therapeutic methods. In this work, we explore, in the context of a viral pandemic, the problem of generating complete instances of undiscovered viral protein sequences, which have a high likelihood of being discovered in the future using protein language models. Our novel method, called PandoGen, trains protein language models towards the pandemic protein forecasting task. PandoGen combines techniques such as synthetic data generation, conditional sequence generation, and reward-based learning, enabling the model to forecast future sequences, with a high propensity to spread. Applying our method to modeling the SARS-CoV-2 Spike protein sequence, we find empirically that our model forecasts twice as many novel sequences with five times the case counts compared to a model that is 30× larger. Our method forecasts unseen lineages months in advance. Available since 2024. Download: https://github.com/UIUC-ChenLab/PandoGen
New! AccShield: Machine learning accelerators such as the Tensor Processing Unit (TPU) are already being deployed in the hybrid cloud, and we foresee such accelerators proliferating in the future. In such scenarios, secure access to the acceleration service and trustworthiness of the underlying accelerators become a concern. In this work, we present AccShield, a new method to extend trusted execution environments (TEEs) to cloud accelerators which takes both isolation and multi-tenancy into security consideration. We demonstrate the feasibility of accelerator TEEs by a proof of concept on an FPGA board. Experiments with our prototype implementation also provide concrete results and insights for different design choices related to link encryption, isolation using partitioning and memory encryption, etc. Available since 2023. Download: https://github.com/UIUC-ChenLab/AccShield
New! NimBlock: This project focuses on enabling virtualization features to facilitate fine-grained FPGA sharing. We employ an overlay architecture which enables arbitrary, independent user logic to share portions of a single FPGA by dividing the FPGA into independently reconfigurable slots. We then explore scheduling possibilities to effectively time- and space-multiplex the virtualized FPGA. The Nimblock scheduling algorithm balances application priorities and performance degradation to improve response time and reduce deadline violations. We achieve up to 5.7× lower average response times when compared to a no-sharing and no-virtualization scheduling algorithm and up to 2.1× average response time improvement over competitive scheduling algorithms that support sharing within our virtualization environment. Available since 2023. Download: https://github.com/UIUC-ChenLab/Nimblock
NEW! ScaleHLS+HIDA: ScaleHLS is a High-level Synthesis (HLS) framework on MLIR. ScaleHLS can compile HLS C/C++ or PyTorch model to optimized HLS C/C++ in order to generate high-efficiency RTL design using downstream tools, such as AMD Vitis HLS. By using the MLIR framework that can be better tuned to particular algorithms at different representation levels, ScaleHLS is more scalable and customizable towards various applications coming with intrinsic structural or functional hierarchies. Working with a set of neural networks modeled in PyTorch, ScaleHLS-generated hardware designs provide up to 3825x higher performances compared to the baseline designs that do not contain pragma directives and are only optimized by Xilinx Vivado HLS. Furthermore, HIDA (ScaleHLS 2.0) achieves an 8.54x higher throughput on average compared to that of ScaleHLS. Meanwhile, despite being fully automated and able to handle various applications, HIDA achieves a 1.29x higher throughput over DNNBuilder, a state-of-the-art RTL-based neural network accelerator on FPGAs. Available since 2022. (>3000 downloads.) Download: https://github.com/UIUC-ChenLab/ScaleHLS-HIDA

Click for more

Research Statement

The spectacular CMOS technology scaling has created a large design productivity gap due to inherent design complexities and deep submicron issues. Development cost, including both the design cost and manufacturing cost, of integrated circuits has grown significantly given the increasing size of the design team and the lengthy design cycles. Meanwhile, intensive computational demands arising from emerging workloads, such as those in various IoT and deep-learning related domains, require new architecture and hardware designs, novel automated design flows, and efficient accelerator deployments both at the edge and in the cloud. In this context, the research group led by Prof. Chen mainly pursues the following research directions: system-level and high-level design automation, machine learning and cognitive computing, hybrid cloud, hardware/software co-design, and FPGA and GPU computing. The group recently is also pursuing several other research directions, such as computational genomics and hardware system security.

Graduate Research Opportunities

We are recruiting. If you are passionate about research, inspired for innovation and impact, determined to pursue a Ph.D. in Computer Engineering, and your research interests match one or more topics as listed in the "RESEARCH INTERESTS" section below, please contact Prof. Chen directly through email and attach your detailed CV.

Undergraduate Research Opportunities

We are looking for committed and mature undergrad researchers for the following topics: FPGA and GPU computing, machine learning and hardware acceleration, high-level and system-level synthesis, and security in IoT and smart grid.

Research Interests
GPU optimization and GPU computing
Hardware/software co-design for SoC
Machine learning and hardware acceleration
Reconfigurable computing and FPGAs
Hardware security for smart IoT applications

Click for more

Research Areas
Algorithms and computational complexity
Computer aided design
Computer aided design of integrated circuits
Digital integrated circuits
Fault tolerance and reliability

Click for more

Research Topics
Autonomous Systems and Artificial Intelligence
Autonomous vehicular technology, UAVs
Bioelectronics and Bioinformatics
Cognitive computing
Computational science and engineering

Click for more

Patents
U.S. Patent Application No.: 18/328,716. Filing date: June 2023. Co-inventors: Bharat Sukhwani, Martin Ohmacht, Hubertus Franke, Sameh Asaad, Scott Smith, Deming Chen. Title: “Dynamic Assignment of Device Queues to Virtual Functions to Provide to Virtual Machines”.
U.S. Patent No.: 11,706,163. Issue date: July 2023. Co-inventors: Jian Huang, Deming Chen, Alexander Gerhard Schwing, Youjie Li. Title: “Accelerating Distributed Reinforcement Learning with In-switch Computing”.
Technology license: a company licensed the "Low Loss DNN Quantization Software" out of ADSC/UIUC in 2021. Co-inventors: Yao Chen, Deming Chen, Cong Hao.
Technology license: a company licensed the RASP technology out of UCLA, 2017. Co-inventors: Deming Chen, Jason Cong, Eugene Ding, Zhijun Huang, Yeanyow Hwang, Chang Wu, Sarah Xu. Title: RASP: FPGA/CPLD Technology Mapping and Synthesis Package.
Technology license: Inspirit IoT, Inc. licensed the VAST HLS technology out of ADSC/UIUC, 2016. Co-inventors: Deming Chen, Hongbin Zheng, Kyle Rupnow, Swathi Gurumani. Title: VAST: High-level Synthesis Tool.

Click for more

Journal Editorships
Editor-in-Chief, ACM Transactions on Reconfigurable Technology and Systems (TRETS), 2019-2025
Guest Editor and main contact, Special Issue of IEEE Design & Test Magazine on Machine Intelligence at the Edge, 2018-2019
Lead Guest Editor, Special Issue of Integration, the VLSI Journal on Hardware Acceleration for Machine Learning, 2018-2019
Conferences Organized or Chaired
Founding General co-chair, the First IEEE International Workshop on LLM-Aided Design (LAD'24), June 2024
TPC Track chair, IEEE/ACM Design Automation Conference (DAC), 2024
Technical Program Vice chair, IEEE/ACM International Conference on Computer-Aided Design (ICCAD), 2024
Professional Societies
Vice President for Awards, IEEE Council on EDA, 2024-present
Member and Cohort FEC Representative, CEDA IEEE Fellow Evaluation Committee (FEC), 2024
Member, ACM SIGDA Outstanding New Faculty Award Committee, 2024
Chair, IEEE CEDA Fellow Evaluation Committee, 2023
Member, ACM SIGDA Outstanding New Faculty Award Committee, 2022

Click for more

Service on Department Committees
ECE Named Appointments Committee, 2022-present
Chair, ECE Graduate Committee, 2020-2022
CE Area Chair, 2015-2017
CSL Policy and Planning Committee, 2008-2010, 2011-2012, 2014-2015, 2021
Service on College Committees
Hybrid Cloud Thrust Co-lead, IBM-Illinois Discovery Accelerator Institute, 2021 - present
Chief Scientist, IBM-Illinois Center for Cognitive Computing Systems Research, 2020 - 2021
Steering Committee member, C-NICE center, Grainger College of Engineering, 2019 - present
Director, AMD/Xilinx Center of Excellence, 2020 - present
Representative of CSL on the College Executive Committee, 2016-2019
Service on Campus Committees
Senator, Faculty Senate, 2014-2016, 2018-2020, 2022-2024
Honors
Keynote Speaker, 31st Reconfigurable Architectures Workshop (RAW), 2024
Vice President for Awards, IEEE Council on EDA, 2024-present
Best Poster Award, ASPDAC, 2024
Best Poster and First Place Winner Award, DAC Ph.D. Forum, 2023
Chair, IEEE CEDA Fellow Evaluation Committee, 2022 & 2023

Click for more

Teaching Honors
On the List of Teachers Ranked as Excellent by Students, Spring 2008, Fall 2017
Public Service Honors
Founding Chair of IEEE CEDA chapter for Central Illinois (12/1/2016)
Recent Courses Taught
ECE 411 - Computer Organization & Design
ECE 479 (ECE 498 ICC, ECE 498 IL1, ECE 498 IL2, ECE 498 IL3, ECE 498 IL4) - IoT and Cognitive Computing
ECE 527 - System-On-Chip Design
Related News
Chen comments on taming the Wild West of AI-generated search results
Grainger Engineering joins new AI Alliance to enhance open source technology
Looking up: scaling up high-level synthesis for faster, more efficient chip design
IBM-Illinois connection spurs on collaborative learning, research opportunities
University of Illinois researchers are part of a $15M institute developing real-time artificial intelligence to accelerate discovery in data-driven science
Illinois ECE graduate student receives 2020 Google PhD Fellowship
Electrical & Computer Engineering
Twitter
Instagram
Facebook
LinkedIn

306 N. Wright St. MC 702

Urbana, IL 61801

Phone: 217-333-2300

Get In Touch Make a Gift

E-mail ECE ILLINOIS
Visit Campus

Explore
Alums: Connect with us
Buildings and facilities
Room reservations
History
Jobs
Daily Byte Cafe
ECE Supply Center
Admissions
Alumni
Athletics
Calendars
Campus Map
Careers
COVID-19
Directory
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Emergency
Giving
Health and Wellness
International
Land Acknowledgement
Library
News
Parents and Families
Research and Innovation
Strategic Plan
Student Assistance Center
Technology Services
University of Illinois System
About Cookies
Privacy Policy
Copyright © 2024
Accessibility
Webmaster
Login
Cookie Notice

We use Cookies on this site to enhance your experience and improve our marketing efforts. Click on “About Cookies” to learn more. By continuing to browse without changing your browser settings to block or delete Cookies, you agree to the storing of Cookies and related technologies on your device.University of Illinois System Cookie Policy

About Cookies Close this Notice

