Professor: Diane J. Litman
University: University of Pittsburgh
URL: https://www.cs.pitt.edu/~litman
Description: erivise  
Diane J. Litman
Home Publications Teaching Lab
Research

My research is in the area of artificial intelligence, and includes contributions in the areas of artificial intelligence and education, computational linguistics, spoken language, and user modeling. My work has included both fundamental research and applied research resulting in technology transfer and patents. My most recent research has been in the area of Speech and Natural Language Technology for Educational Applications. Currently funded projects include:

(Automated Assessment of Classroom Discussion Quality) Web-Based App to Advance Learning Science Research
(CourseMIRROR) Enhancing Undergraduate STEM Education by Integrating Mobile Learning Technologies with Natural Language Processing
(Discussion Tracker) Development of Human Language Technologies to Improve the Teaching of Collaborative Argumentation in High School English Classrooms
(eRevise) Response-to-Text Tasks to Assess Students' Use of Evidence and Organization in Writing: Using Natural Language Processing for Scoring Writing and Providing Feedback At-Scale
(NRI) Studying Collaborative Dialogue with a Teachable Robot in a Mathematics Domain
(FAI) Using AI to Increase Fairness by Improving Access to Justice

Brief Biography

I am Professor of Computer Science (CS), a Senior Scientist with the Learning Research and Development Center (LRDC), and Faculty of the Intelligent Systems Program (ISP), all at the University of Pittsburgh. CS and ISP are part of Pitt's School of Computing and Information (SCI). I moved here from the Garden State (aka New Jersey), where from 1985-2001 I was a member of the Artificial Intelligence Principles Research Department, AT&T Labs - Research (formerly Bell Laboratories); From 1990-1992, I was also an Assistant Professor of Computer Science at Columbia University. I received my Ph.D. and M.S. in Computer Science from the University of Rochester, and my A.B. in Mathematics and Computer Science from the College of William and Mary in Virginia. Here are my informal and more formal versions of my academic geneology.

News
March 2024: Pitt Cyber Accelerator Grant on "Building Socially Responsible Machine Writing Tutors"
January 2024: Panelist, Generative AI and Teaching: Uses in Evaluation of Learning
December 2023: Joined Duolingo's English Test Technical Advisory Board
December 2023: Panelist, Celebration of the 10th Anniversary of the Argument Mining Workshop Series
September 2023: Appointed as first Associate Dean for Mentoring and Development in the School of Computing and Information
August 2023: New NSF grant on learning technologies
July 2023: Best Poster Award at AIED for "Impact of Experiencing Misrecognition by Teachable Agents on Learning and Rapport" by Yuya Asano, Diane Litman, Mingzhi Yu, Nikki Lobczowski, Timothy Nokes-Malach, Adriana Kovashka, and Erin Walker
June 2023: New internal grant on Using ChatGPT to Analyze Classroom Discussions
May 2023: Launch of ImageArg Shared Task 2023: The First Shared Task in Multimodal Argument Mining
April 2023: Panelist, ChatGPT Wrote this Title: Exploring the Impact of AI on Our Minds and Society
March 2023: Panelist, SheLeads Women's Forum
February 2023: Panelist, ChatNexus: Discussing the State of AI in Education and What's Next
February 2023: Speaker, ChatGPT: The Evolution of Generative AI Tools and Implications for Teaching
Archived News
Editorial
Associate Editor, International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education
Editorial Board, Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research
Editorial Board, Argument and Computation
PC Activities 2023
The 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
9th Workshop on Speech and Language Technology in Education
PhD Students
Yuya Asano, Intelligent Systems
Mohamed Salem Elaraby, Computer Science
Zhexiong Liu, Computer Science
Nhat Tran, Computer Science
Yang Zhong , Computer Science


Data and Code
Request/Download
 Professor
Department of Computer Science
5105 Sennott Square
210 South Bouquet Street
University of Pittsburgh
Pittsburgh, PA 15260
(phone) 412-624-8838

Senior Scientist
Learning Research and Development Center
Murdoch Building
3420 Forbes Ave
Office 420
University of Pittsburgh
Pittsburgh, PA 15260
(phone) 412-624-1261

Faculty
Intelligent Systems Program


dlitman at pitt dot edu


© Diane Litman. All rights reserved. Design by TEMPLATED.

