Professor: Duane S. Boning
University: Massachusetts Institute of Technology
URL: https://www-mtl.mit.edu/wpmu/researchgroupsboning/boning
Description: STATISTICAL METROLOGY GROUP
Prof. Duane S. Boning
ABOUT
GROUP MEMBERS
PROF. DUANE S. BONING
PUBLICATIONS

The Statistical Metrology Group focuses on the understanding and reduction of variation in advanced micro- and nano-fabrication processes, devices, and circuits, particularly in integrated circuit, photonic and MEMS technologies. We develop new methods and approaches to measure, model, and mitigate the wide range of deviations observed in manufactured devices.

Figure 1: The characterization design layout with our estimation of the Si3N4 on SiO2 thickness variation map inferred from the measurement.

One branch of our work is closely tied to important semiconductor fabrication processes, and emerging processes in MEMS and nanofabrication technologies. Processes of particular interest include chemical-mechanical polishing (CMP), electroplating, deep reactive ion etch (DRIE), hot embossing, and nanoimprint lithography. In each of these, we have developed test structures and masks, and approaches to measure systematic variation at the wafer scale as well as die scale (particularly layout pattern dependent variations). These measurements are coupled to empirical and physical models and simulation tools, for designers to predict manufacturing results for their particular layout. Finally, methods to reduce or mitigate these variations are being explored, such as through
dummy fill strategies.

Figure 3: Mapping of transmission impact of a dioxide pillar.

The second major branch of our work is tied to the design implications of manufacturing variation. We develop novel test circuits to measure variation, particularly to gather the large numbers of measurements to enable modeling of not only mean but also variance dependencies. We develop new approaches to model these variations, ranging from spatial correlation models, to systematic layout models, to random and other variation models in compact model form. We study the impact of variations in parameters such as Vt, Id(sat), and leakage on circuit and system (e.g. multicore) design. Finally, we consider yield optimization, circuit compensation and self-healing approaches to mitigate
these variations.

Engineering Faculty Co-Director of the Leaders for Global Operations (LGO) Program
Associate Director, Computation
News
Duane Boning named head of Leaders for Global Operations program
Duane Boning named LeBel Professor
Search

Accessibility

Copyright © 2024 | MH Corporate basic by MH Themes

