Professor: Eric P. S. Baumer
University: Lehigh University
URL: http://ericbaumer.com/
Description: Main menu
Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content
Home
Publications
Research
Teaching
Press
Bio

Eric P. S. Baumer

I apply a sociocultural perspective to natural language technologies.

My research focuses on the design of, interactions with, and resistance toward language technology systems. This work inhabits various intersections among human-computer interaction (HCI), artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), and social computing. Fully understanding the individual and societal experiences around these systems requires close attention to the technical details of their design and implementation. Similarly, any responsible design of such technologies must account for their broader human and social dimensions.

To do so, my work integrates computational techniques from natural language processing and machine learning, conceptual orientations from qualitative and interpretivist social science, and design-based methods for human-centered research. This interdisciplinary synthesis contributes concepts and tools that are essential for understanding, for imagining, and for creating, the future of sociotechnical systems.

Associate Professor

Computer Science & Engineering

Data X Initiative

Lehigh

RECENT PAPERS
Amin Hosseiny Marani, Joshua Levine, Eric P. S. Baumer. 2022. One Rating to Rule Them All? Evidence of Multidimensionality in Human Assessment of Topic Labeling Quality. In Proceedings of the ACM International Conference on Information & Knowledge Management (CIKM).
Dilruba Showkat and Eric P. S. Baumer. 2022. “It’s Like the Value System in the Loop”: Domain Experts’ Values Expectations for NLP Automation. In Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Designing Interactive Systems (DIS), 100–122.
Eric P. S. Baumer, Mahmood Jasim, Ali Sarvghad, and Narges Mahyar. 2022. Of Course it's Political! A Critical Inquiry into Underemphasized Dimensions in Civic Text Visualization. Computer Graphics Forum 41, 3 (EuroVis).
Dilruba Showkat and Eric P. S. Baumer. 2021. Where Do Stories Come From? Examining the Exploration Process in Investigative Data Journalism. Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction 5, CSCW2: 390:1-390:31.
Anjali Devakumar, Jay Modh, Bahador Saket, Eric P. S. Baumer, and Munmun De Choudhury. 2021. A Review on Strategies for Data Collection, Reflection, and Communication in Eating Disorder Apps. In Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI), 1–19.
Proudly powered by WordPress

