Professor: Eshwar Chandrasekharan
University: Univ. of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
URL: http://www.eshwarchandrasekharan.com/
Description: ESHWAR
	
HOME
PUBLICATIONS
TEACHING
LAB
CONTACT
ESHWAR CHANDRASEKHARAN
I am an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Previously, I obtained my Ph.D. in Computer Science from Georgia Tech, and M.Tech + B.Tech in Computer Science from the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras.

Research summary:
Using a combination of computational techniques and social computing theories, my research aims to make advances on the problem of abusive behavior online with a long-term goal of making the Internet safer and more welcoming.

Here's the link to my Google Scholar and my latest CV.

Bio:
Eshwar Chandrasekharan is an Assistant Professor of Computer Science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. His research builds a foundation for evaluating and improving approaches to online moderation, and developing new AI-backed sociotechnical systems. Dr. Chandrasekharan's work has appeared at high-impact conferences venues (including a Best Paper award at CSCW 202, Honorable Mention at DIS 2024, and a Best Paper Award Runner Up at WebSci 2020), and received considerable press coverage—e.g., The New York Times, MIT Technology Review, TechCrunch, The Verge and MotherBoard. He won a Facebook research award for his project on measuring healthy online behavior. Professor Chandrasekharan has worked with large-scale Internet platforms including Twitter, Reddit and Facebook, and his research has impacted their efforts to improve online governance. For example, he developed  Crossmod, a new AI-backed moderation system that is currently deployed in an online community with over 14 million subscribers. His research led Reddit to ban many hate groups (e.g., neo-Nazis) from the platform. Steve Huffman, Reddit CEO and co-founder, also used Dr. Chandrasekharan's work as evidence in a testimony before Congress. Professor Chandrasekharan holds a B.Tech and M.Tech in Computer Science from the Indian Institute of Technology Madras, and a Ph.D. in Computer Science from the Georgia Institute of Technology.

