Professor: Evgenios M. Kornaropoulos
University: George Mason University
URL: https://cs.gmu.edu/~evgenios
Description: Evgenios Kornaropoulos

Assistant Professor - George Mason University

Group Publications Teaching CV

I am Evgenios (pronounced ev-YEN-ee-os) and I am an Assistant Professor in the Computer Science Department at George Mason University. My research is in computer security and applied cryptography and focuses on analyzing and designing efficient encrypted systems using techniques from cryptography and algorithms. I am the head of the Encrypted Systems Group at George Mason.

Before George Mason, I was a postdoctoral researcher at the EECS Department at UC Berkeley working with Dawn Song from 2019-2021. I obtained my PhD in 2019 from the Computer Science Department at Brown University working under the supervision of Roberto Tamassia. My doctoral dissertation received the Joukowsky Outstanding Dissertation Award from the Graduate School of Brown University.

Openings: Our Encrypted Systems Group has openings for motivated Ph.D. students with focus on applied cryptography. Please contact me if you are interested in joining the group.

Recent News
July-24	Our Breach Extraction Attacks paper from S&P'24 is one of the finalists for the ''Best Cryptographic Attack'' category at Pwnie Awards 2024!
May-24	Will give an invited talk to the Privacy and Cryptography group at Georgetown University hosted by Muthu Venkitasubramaniam about our Breach Extraction Attacks paper from S&P'24.
Apr-24	Our paper "AITIA: Efficient Secure Computation of Bivariate Causal Discovery" is accepted at CCS'24! We co-design the machine learning algorithms and the secure computation approach to propose the first efficient privacy-preserving causal discovery protocol!
Mar-24	Will give an invited talk to the CASCADE team at École Normale Supérieure about our Breach Extraction Attacks paper from S&P'24.
Nov-23	Our paper "Algorithmic Complexity Attacks on Dynamic Learned Indexes" is accepted at VLDB'24! We perform a security assessment of the ALEX dymanic learned index and demonstrate a series of algorithmic complexity attacks.
Oct-23	Our cryptanalysis paper "Breach Extraction Attacks: Exposing and Addressing the Leakage in Second Generation Compromised Credential Checking Services" is accepted at IEEE S&P'24! We exploit and fix the cryptographic leakage in the MIGP protocol deployed by Cloudflare.
Aug-23	Somiya Chhillar, a M.Sc. student in our CS department, is joining our group! Welcome Somiya!
May-23	Will give an invited talk to the (invitation-only)Topical Workshop on Encryption for Secure Search and other Algorithms in Bertinoro, Italy!
Apr-23	Tessa Joseph, a junior at the Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology, will join our group for a summer research internship! Welcome Tessa!
Mar-23	Serving in the program committee of IEEE Symposium on Security & Privacy (S&P) 2024! Submit your cool papers!
Mar-23	Gave an invited talk at the "Public Key Cryptography and Applications" symposium of the SIAM Southeastern Atlantic Section Annual Meeting hosted at Virginia Tech!
Dec-22	Received a grant from the Commonwealth Cyber Initative (CCI)! The project is titled "Equitable Healthcare via Ethical and Provable De-identification". Joint grant with co-PI Rebecca Sutter from the College of Public Health at George Mason.

Nov-22	My group and I are attending ACM Symposium on Computer Science and Law 2022 in Washington D.C. Ping me if you are around!
Sep-22	Serving in the program committee of Financial Cryptography (FC) 2023 as well as IEEE European Symposium on Security and Privacy (EuroS&P) 2023!
Aug-22	Our paper on searchable encryption "Leakage Inversion: Towards Quantifying Privacy in Searchable Encryption" is accepted at CCS 2022! This is the first paper of my PhD student Nathaniel Moyer!
Aug-22	Received a Meta Research Award in Security to support the work of my group on Searchable Encryption!
Jul-22	Received an NSF SaTC Medium grant as a lead PI! Looking forward to collaborating with Yale University and Brown University on Encrypted Databases.
May-22	Received a grant from the Commonwealth Cyber Initative (CCI)! Joint grant with co-PI Giuseppe Ateniese and our industry partner Leidos Inc.
May-22	Received the Miretta Flytzani-Stephanopoulos Doctoral Thesis Achievement Award!
Apr-22	Gave an invited talk at the Cryptography Technology Group at NIST
Dec-21	Our paper on attacks on learned systems "The Price of Tailoring the Index to Your Data: Poisoning Attacks on Learned Index Structures" is accepted at SIGMOD 2022!
Sep-21	Our paper on adversarial examples "Adversarial Examples for k-Nearest Neighbor Classifiers Based on Higher-Order Voronoi Diagrams" is accepted at NeurIPS 2021!
Aug-21	Gave an invited talk at the Private Computing group of Google NYC

Jun-21	You can watch my talk from IEEE S&P'21
Apr-21	I am part of the ACM CCS 2021 program committee. Send us your papers!
Jan-21	Gave a (remote) invited talk at Athens Cryptography Day - AtheCrypt 2021.
Dec-20	Our paper "Response-Hiding Encrypted Ranges: Revisiting Security via Parametrized Leakage-Abuse Attacks" is accepted at IEEE S&P 2021!
Jul-20	Our multi-source secure contact tracing work is out: "BeeTrace: A Unified Platform for Secure Contact Tracing that Breaks Data Silos"
Aug-20	You can watch my talk from IEEE S&P'20
 

