Professor: Fabián E. Bustamante
University: Northwestern University
URL: http://www.cs.northwestern.edu/~fabianb
Description: Home
Bio
Publications
Teaching
Students
Activities
Random
Fabián E. Bustamante
Professor
Computer Science
Northwestern University
Director of Research
Phenix RTS

The principle of science, the definition, almost, is the following: The test of all knowledge is experiment. Experiment is the sole judge of scientific 'truth'. But what is the source of knowledge? Where do the laws that are to be tested come from? Experiment, itself, helps to produce these laws, in the sense that it gives us hints.

Richard Feynman, The Feynman Lectures on Physics

I do research on Internet-scale computer networks and distributed systems. My research approach is primarily experimental -- building and evaluating ideas in “the wild”. Much of my work focuses on improving the visibility of measurement on networked systems, leveraging this visibility to characterize them and the infrastructure they rely on, and designing new and improved systems based on the gained insight. As the forces shaping the Internet ecosystem are less purely technical, in recent years I have started to explore the interactions between pervasive networked systems and their broader context, from natural disaster, to political unrest and economics. more?

What's New?
I am always looking for good students interested in networked systems (distributed systems, networking, wired and mobile systems).
Walter Willinger and I co-organized an NSF Workshop focused on Internet Survivability. A fantastic, diverse group of participants and some great discussions.
Demand on Internet systems as a proxy for social distancing - read our cool IMC 2021 paper "Networked Systems as Witnesses - Association Between Content Demand, Human Mobility and an Infection Spread".
Two SIGMETRICS papers back to back, in 2023 looking at global threats towards consolidation and in 2024 on a study of intercontinental long-haul links as the network-layer manifestation of critical transoceanic undersea cables.
Oldies but goodies ...
A new Northwestern initiative for computer science with over 20 new faculty positions.
Nick Feamster and I co-chaired the ACM Internet Measurement Conference 2020. Among the many changes we introduced to the review process, the use of a Review Task Force and Early Rejections seem to be popular and have been adopted by several other great conferences since.
A great NSF/FCC workshop on tracking quality of experience in the Internet. The report from it is now available at the SIGCOMM CCR.
An op-ed in Pacific Standard on Cuban Internet connectivity
My op-ed on Forbes on the right to affordable broadband

Blog

