Professor: Fengbo Ren
University: Arizona State University
URL: https://search.asu.edu/profile/2436287
Description: ASU websites use cookies to enhance user experience, analyze site usage, and assist with outreach and enrollment. By continuing to use this site, you are giving us your consent to do this. Learn more about cookies on ASU websites in our Privacy Statement.

Ok, I agree
Skip to main content
Report an accessibility problem
ASU Home
My ASU
Colleges and Schools
Sign In
ASU Search
News/Events
Academics
Admission
Research
Athletics
Alumni
Giving
President
About ASU
Fengbo Ren
Courtesy Affiliate,
Visiting Scholar/Faculty/Researcher
renfengbo@asu.edu
Phone: 480-727-5793
‌
699 S. Mill Ave # 553 P.O. Box 878809
Tempe, AZ 85281
‌
‌
Biography
Research
Teaching
Public Work
Long Bio

Fengbo Ren received a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from Zhejiang University in 2008, and his master's and doctoral degrees in electrical engineering from the University of California, Los Angeles, in 2010 and 2014, respectively.

He is an Associate Professor in the School of Computing and Augmented Intelligence at Arizona State University. He is directing the Parallel Systems and Computing Laboratory (PSCLab), and he is affiliated with the NSF Industry/University Cooperative Research Center for Embedded Systems. His current research interests are focused on algorithm, hardware, and system innovations for data analytics and information processing, with emphasis on bringing energy efficiency and data intelligence into a wide spectrum of today’s computing infrastructures, from data center server systems to wearable and Internet-of-things devices. He is a senior member of both IEEE and ACM. He is a member of the Digital Signal Processing Technical Committee and VLSI Systems & Applications Technical Committee of the IEEE Circuits and Systems Society.

Ren received the Broadcom Fellowship in 2012, the prestigious National Science Foundation (NSF) Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Award in 2017, the Google Faculty Research Award in 2018. He also received the Top 5 percent Best Teacher Awards from the Fulton Schools of Engineering at ASU in 2017, 2018, and 2019. 

Education
Ph.D. Electrical Engineering, University of California, Los Angeles 2015
M.S. Electrical Engineering, University of California, Los Angeles 2010
B.Eng. Electrical Engineering, Zhejiang University, China 2008
Maps and Locations
Jobs
Directory
Contact ASU
My ASU
Copyright and Trademark
Accessibility
Privacy
Terms of Use
Emergency

