Professor: Franziska Roesner
University: University of Washington
URL: http://www.franziroesner.com/
Description: Franziska Roesner

Brett Helsel Associate Professor
Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering
University of Washington
Bill & Melinda Gates Center, Box 352355
Seattle, WA 98195

franzi@cs.washington.edu

Security and Privacy Research Lab

About Students Teaching Research Personal

I am an associate professor in the Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering.

My research focuses on computer security and privacy. My interests are broad within that domain, identifying and addressing security and privacy challenges faced by end users of existing and emerging technologies. I co-direct the Security and Privacy Research Lab.

I am also an adjunct associate professor in the Information School, the Electrical & Computer Engineering Department and the Human Centered Design and Engineering Department at the University of Washington. I am also affiliated with the UW Tech Policy Lab, the UW Reality Lab, and the Center for an Informed Public.

I am on the USENIX Security steering committee (after co-chairing in 2020) and was on the USENIX Enigma steering committee (after co-chairing in 2018 and 2019).

I am the recipient of an NSF CAREER Award (2017), an Emerging Leader Alumni Award from the UT Austin College of Natural Sciences (2017), an MIT Technology Review Innovators Under 35 Award (2017), a Google Security and Privacy Research Award (2017), an Undergraduate Research Mentor Award (2020), a Consumer Reports Digital Lab Fellowship (2021), and a Google Research Scholar Award (2022).

Some directions I'm particularly interested in at the moment (but not an exhaustive list!) include:

Security and privacy for emerging technologies, such as augmented reality (AR) and smart homes
Understanding & designing for the security needs of end users, especially marginalized & vulnerable groups
Studying privacy and security in the wild, such as studying the online ad ecosystem
Studying and combating technology-enabled mis/disinformation online

Last updated October 2023.

