Professor: Gopal Gupta 0001
University: University of Texas at Dallas
URL: http://www.utdallas.edu/~gupta
Description: Gopal Gupta
Professor, Department of Computer Science, University of Texas at Dallas
Co-director, Center for Applied AI and Machine Learning,


Contact Information:
     Email: gupta AT utdallas DOT edu (best way to contact me)
     Tel: (972) 883 4107
     Fax: (972) 883 2399
     Office: ECSS 3.803 (CS Bldg)    (DIRECTIONS)




[Future/Recent Events] [Research Interests] [Education] [Projects] [Service][Current/Past Students] [Courses] [Miscellaneous]

New: ICLP'24 The 2024 Int'l Conf. on Logic Programming will be held in Dallas in Oct'24
New: ICLP'23 Invited Talk Slides click here
News: LLMs + s(CASP) == domain-specific Chatbots that can "understand" humans and interactively talk: click here
News: Tutorial paper on automating commonsense reasoning: click here
News: Paper on NeSyFOLD System, for symbolically explaining output of CNNs click here
News: Paper on FOLD-SE, a scalable explainable AI system: click here (FOLD-SE needs no dataset prep, is order of magnitude faster than XGBoost et al, is explainable/interpretable, and produces small no. of rules even for very large datasets).
News: Prolog celebrates its 50th birthday in 2022: More details here. The Prolog Heritage Association and ALP have instituted the Alain Colmeraruer Prize. Checkout my logic programming course to high-school students to celebrate; Here are two position papers that my group wrote for the 50 year celebration: Prolog: The Next 50 Years and Logic-based Explainable and Incremental Machine Learning
News: The s(CASP) system is now available from within SWI-Prolog. Try it out through the SWI-Prolog Online Interface. Also available through Ciao playground.
News: Team of PhD students Kinjal Basu, Sarat Varanasi, Fang Li, and Huaduo Wang selected for Amazon Alexa Socialbot Grand Challenge 4. read the news release
News: Recent News Releases: (i) AI for Electricity Markets; (ii) Using Drones for Warehouse Inventory; (iii) City of Richardson -- Innovation Quarters
News: Preprint of paper at AAAI 2021: Knowledge-driven Natural Language Understanding of English Text and its Applications.
News: Current funded projects: (i) CLARISSA (DARPA through Honeywell); (ii) Explainable AI (NSF); (iii) Automated HF Diagnosis (NSF); and, (iv) Goal-directed ASP (NSF) (v) Applications of Explainable AI (Atos Corp)
News: Recent papers on explainable AI, inductive learning of default theories, abductive inference, and ASP-based natural language question answering
News: The paper on Coinductive Logic Programming in ICLP 2006 by Simon, Mallya, Bansal and Gupta earns ICLP 2016 10 years Test-of-Time award

Software: FOLD-R++: An Explainable AI system for learning default rules directly from data for binary classification. Paper describing the system.
Software: FOLD-RM: An Explainable AI system for learning default rules directly from data for multi-category classification. Paper describing the system.
Software: SHAP-FOLD: An Explainable AI system for discovering the logic from models learned using statistical methods (includes source-code/documentation; re-implemented in Python)
Software: The s(CASP) System: The s(ASP) system re-engineered to include constraints. Paper describing the system.
Software: The s(ASP) System: A predicate answer set programming system (includes source code and documentation.); Paper describing the system.
Software: GALLIWASP: A goal-directed system for answer set programming (includes source code and documentation.)
Software: Metainterpreter supporting tabling (DRA) and coinduction with applications to LTL model checking
Paper on uniform proof-theoretic treatment of various semantics of negation (the basis of s(ASP)/s(CASP)): click here
Tutorial intro to ASP and summary of s(ASP): click here 

A paper describing the s(ASP) system, plus a position paper appeared in ARCADE 2017, a CADE 2017 workshop.
A Degree Audit System: First Real Application of s(ASP) (includes source code and documentation.)
     UTD CS, Math and MechE majors, try an audit now: click here

High School Cell Biology: Represented as an answer set program (runs on the s(ASP) system.)

A medical application of s(ASP): A Physician Advisory System for CHF (appears in Proc. ICLP 2016); automates the guidelines published here using the s(ASP) system.
HackAR: A hackathon around s(ASP) was organized by the UT Dallas AI Society in Nov 2016. See the 18 projects that were undertaken.
HackReason: A hackathon around s(CASP) was organized by the UT Dallas AI Society on Jan 14-15, 2022 (World Logic Day). See the details of HackReason 2022 here and the projects here. HackReason 2021 details are here and the projects here.
XAI Hackathon: FOLD-R++ and FOLD-RM are great XAI tools. A hackathon was organized around them. See the efforts here.

Videos of Talks 
Talk on Artificial General Intelligence, given to Society on Stat. Computing: click here (slides are here)
Talk given at Microsoft Research, Bangalore, on Automating Commonsense Reasoning: click here
General talk on AI: Artifical Intelligence: The Road Forward: click here

Tutorial on common sense reasoning with ASP: click here
Talk given at Microsoft Research, Redmond, WA, on Logic, Co-induction and Infinite Computation: click here

Laboratory: Applied Logic Programming-Languages and Systems (ALPS) Lab  (you can see the old lab page here)
Company: Founded (2008) Interoperate, Inc. (funded by the Texas Emerging Technology Fund)   (see recent UTD press release)
Other Activities: the E-plan system, the QOLT Lab, and the CHAMPS Project (see CHAMPS press release)  
Past Work: (See a summary of my group's research contributions here)
G. Gupta, et al. Logic, Coinduction, and Infinite Computation. Slides from CALCO'11 invited talk.
N. Saeedloei, G. Gupta. Coinductive Constraint Logic Programming.
K. Marple, A. Bansal, R. Min, G. Gupta. Goal-directed Execution of Answer Set Programs.
K. Marple, G. Gupta. GALLIWASP: A Goal-directed Answer Set Solver.
A. Karshmer, G. Gupta, E. Pontelli. Mathematics and Accessibility: A Survey.
G. Gupta. Reissuing the 5th Generation Challenge: Next Generation of LP Systems. Talk given at DAMP'06.
FUTURE EVENTS:
25th Symposium on Practical Aspects of Declarative Languages (PADL).
RECENT EVENTS:
Workshop on Goal-directed Execution of Answer Set Programs (GDE'22; 1 day workshop), Haifa, Israel, August 1, 2022.
38th International Conference on Logic Programming (ICLP'22; part of FLoC 2022), Haifa, Israel, Aug 1-5, 2020.
24th Symposium on Practical Aspects of Declarative Languages (PADL).
Enhanced Coinduction Workshop

2019 ALP Autumn School in Logic Programming, Las Cruces, NM, Sep 2019. (I gave a tutorial on co-inductive and abductive logic programming)
Research Interests:
Artificial Intelligence: Knowledge Representation, Common Sense Reasoning, Explainable Machine Learning.
Programming Languages: Implementation, Semantics, Applications, Constraint and Logic Programming, Static Analysis.
Software Engineering: Software Verification, Real-time Systems, Domain Specific Languages, Interoperability.
Parallel and Distributed Processing: High Performance AI and Constraint Logic Programming Systems, Automatic Parallelization, Parallel Architectures, Applications.
Human Computer Interaction: Tools for Visually Impaired; Intelligent Interfaces.
Education
Ph.D (Computer Science): UNC at Chapel Hill (1991)
M.S. (Computer Science): UNC at Chapel Hill (1987)
B.Tech. (Computer Science): Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, India (May 1985)

From 1989 to 1991, I worked as a Research Associate in the research group of David H.D. Warren (of the Warren Abstract Machine fame, now retired) in the CS Department, University of Bristol, UK.


From 01/92 to 08/00, I worked as a faculty member in the Computer Science Department at New Mexico State University.


Current Projects
Automated Common Sense Reasoning
Explainable AI
Logic-based Software Assurance
Goal-directed Answer Set Programming
Coinductive Logic Programming
Support for my group has been provided by DARPA, NSF, NATO, EPA, DHS, Sandia National Labs, AITEC (Japan), Fullbright Foundation, etc.
Software Systems developed by my research group
SHAP-FOLD Explainable AI System for Relational Learning. With Shakerin.
s(CASP): Predicate Constraint Answer Set Programming System. With Arias (UPM), Carro (UPM), Marple, Salazar
s(ASP): Predicate Answer Set Programming System. With Marple, Salazar
Galliwasp: Goal-directed Answer Set Solver. With Marple, Min, Bansal.
CoLP Metainterpreter: Meta-interpreter for co-LP. With Kluzniak, Simon, Mallya, Bansal.
NEXUS parser: A parser for NEXUS (NEXUS is a bioinformatics mark-up language).
ExSched System: An Excel Plug-in for Knowledgesheet (see below). A spreadsheet interface for solving constraint satisfaction problems. With Tiwari, Chitnis, Yennamani. 2006. Used in the past by CS and EE departments to automatically schedule courses.
VoxBoox System: A system for automatically generating interactive talking books. With Aanchal Jain Click here to see demo.
DAWN System: A system that allows interactive audio/voice based aural surfing of the WWW over the phone. With Raman, Nichols, Reddy, Annamalai.
Semantic Web System: Semantically maps RDF documents and RDQL queries to Horn logic. The RDQL queries can then be executed w.r.t. RDF data. With Kunal Patel, 2003.
The E-plan System: The E-plan system is a Web-based system for helping with emergencies involving hazardous chemicals. Read an article about the system in Firechief magazine (a more recent one here in Industrial Fire World magazine) and how it was used for Hurricane Katrina releif.
TA Scheduler: Automatically assigns to TAs to courses. Used at UTD since fall 2002 to make assignment for 70+ TAs to about 120 courses. With King, Gupta, Guballa, Mallya. 2003.
HTML to VoiceXML Transcoder: converts any HTML 4.0 web-page to VoiceXML. Extensible. Developed in Java (initial prototype in Prolog). With Narayan, Gupta, Dr. Prabhakaran.
Transform: Bioinformatics interoperability tool (available through swbic.org). With Drs Pontelli, Ranjan, Milligan. 2001.
PALS: Parallel ALS, a distributed logic programming system based on the commercial ALS Prolog system. Implements full Prolog, and runs on Beowulf (ca. 2002). Built on top of Applied Logic System's (ALS) WAM, uses MPI and the novel technique of stack-splitting to realize distributivity. Villaverde, Pontelli, Gupta, Guo.
TALS: Tabled ALS, a tabled logic programming system based on the commercial ALS Prolog system. Implemented on top of ALS WAM, uses novel technique of dynamic reordering of alternatives. With Hai-Feng Guo.
NADA: An automatic system for checking undergraduate graduation requirements and providing advise automatically to students (built for NMSU). Implemented using Prolog + Java. Jose-Mendez, Karshmer, and Gupta. 1999.
ACE: A High Performance Parallel Prolog System implemented on top of SICStus Prolog. Runs on SMMs. Pontelli and Gupta. No longer maintained or available.
VACE: A tool for visualizing and-or parallel execution of logic programs. Runs on daVinci. Vaupel, Pontelli, Gupta. No longer maintained or available.
Knowledgesheet: A Spread-sheet based tool for solving constraint satisfaction problems. Akhtar and Gupta.
Nemeth to Latex Backtranslator: A system for converting Nemeth Math Braille document to Latex. 2001. Try the expression coverter here: Nemeth Math to Latex Backtranslator (alpha).
An Interpreter for EqL: EqL is an equational language. Gupta and Jayaraman. 1987. No longer maintained or available.
Professional Organization Service
President (2010-2014), Association for Logic Programming.
Area Editor (2005-2020), Theory and Practice of Logic Programming Journal (Cambridge University Press).
Executive Committee Member (2003-2007), Association for Logic Programming.
Member of the Board (9/01-8/06 ), European Association for Programming Languages and Systems (EAPLS)
Conference Coordinator (2003-2009) Association for Logic Programming.
Past Organized Events
Program Co-Chair, 21st International Conference on Logic Programming.
Workshop on Constraint Logic Programming and Software Engineering, LPSE2000.
Co-founder and director (1992-2000) of the Laboratory for Logic, Databases, and Advanced Programming. The Lab is now directed by Prof. Enrico Pontelli.
Founder, PADL (Practical Aspects of Declarative Languages) symposium series, 1999 onwards.
First COMPULOG AMERICAS Summer School on (Constraint) Logic Programming.
Second COMPULOG AMERICAS Summer School on (Constraint) Logic Programming.
General Chair, 16th International Conference on Logic Programming.
Organizer, 1999 NSF PIs' meeting. of NSF's Research Infrastructure Award Holders.
Students: Past and Present
Ph.D. Students
Huaduo Wang, 2022, Explainable AI Algorithms for Classification Tasks with Mixed Data, Meta/Facebook.
Sarat Chandra Varanasi, 2022 (co-advised with Neeraj Mittal), Automated Synthesis of Concurrent Program, GE Research
Fang Li, 2022, Graph-based Commonsense Reasoning Engines, Faculty member at Oklahoma Christian University
Kinjal Basu, 2022, Natural Language Question Answering based on Commonsense Reasoning, IBM TJ Watson Research Center View the thesis
Farhad Shakerin, 2020, Logic-based Approaches for Explainable AI and Natural Language Understanding. Microsoft Corp. View the thesis
Elmer Salazar, 2019, Proof-theoretic Foundations of Normal Logic Programs. Assistant Professor of Instruction, UT Dallas, View the thesis
Mohammad Ali Ghaderi, 2017 (co-advised with Lakshman Tamil), iSono Health, Inc.
Savio Monteiro, 2018 (co-advised with Lakshman Tamil), Computer Associates.
Zhuo Chen, 2017, A Physician Advisory System based on ASP: Heart Failure. Postdoc Researcher at UT Dallas. View the thesis
Stanley Jointer, 2016 (co-advised with Lakshman Tamil), Def-Logix, Inc.
Kyle Marple, 2014, Goal-directed Answer Set Programming. Walmart Technology Labs. View the thesis
Neda Saeedloei, 2011, Verification of Complex Real-time Systems. Asst. Professor, Towson State University. View the thesis
Richard Min, August 2009, Thesis: Predicate Answer Set Programming with Coinduction. Taylor University. View the thesis
Srividya Kona, Dec. 2007, Thesis: Automatic Discovery and Composition of Web Services, Associate Professor. Arizona State University.
Ajay Bansal, Dec. 2007, Thesis: Next Generation of LP Systems. Assistant Professor, Arizona State University. (Won best paper award at ECOWS'05). View the thesis
Qian Wang, Dec. 2007, Thesis: Semantics-based Approaches to Formal Language Processing, Interoperate LLC (best paper SVV'03). View the thesis
Ajay Mallya, Aug. 2006, Ph.D. Thesis: Deductive Model Checking. Amazon.com, Seattle, WA. (won best student paper award at ICLP'05; best paper award ECOWS'05).
Luke Simon, July. 2006, Ph.D. Thesis: Coinductive Logic Programming. Twitter, Inc. (Won best paper award at ECOWS'05). View the thesis
Haifeng Guo, Oct. 2000 , Ph.D. Thesis: Efficient Distributed and Tabled Logic Programming Systems. Ex NSF Post Doc. Fellow, SUNY SB. Professor, CS Dept. University of Nebraska at Omaha. Awarded Nebraska EPSCOR Career grant. Currently at Amazon.com.
Enrico Pontelli, 1997, Ph.D. Thesis: Design and Implementation of the ACE System. Currently, Dean of A&S, NMSU. Awarded NSF CAREER grant, 1998;
Current PhD students:
Huaduo Wang, Scalable Explainable AI with Default Logic
Parth Padalkar, Neurosymbolic AI
Abhiramon Rajasekharan, NLP with commonsense reasoning
Yankai Zeng, PhD Student, NLP with commonsense reasoning
Sopam Dasgupta, Topic: TBD
Keegan Kimbrell, Topic: TBD
Master's Students (with information on first employment)
Dhruv Pendharker (2018, Uber), Converting Free Text to Knowledge; View the thesis
Savio Monteiro, (2010, UTD CE PhD student), Mobile Aural Browsing.
Abhilash Tiwari (2009, NPI), Intelligent Interfaces for Problem Solving
Shrirang Khisti(2008, VMWare), Automatic Detection of Memory Leaks in Binary Executables
Parag Doshi(2007, Yahoo), General Strategies for Buffer Overflow Attack Proofing
Bharathi Boyareddigari, Thesis: Guidance System for Visually Impaired
Aanchal Jain (2006, Tektronix), Thesis: Automatic Generation of Interactive Talking Books
Siddharth Chitnis(2006, QualComm), Thesis: Logical Spreadsheets
Sriram Sunder Raman (2005, QualComm), Thesis: Dynamic Aural Web Navigation.
Ramya Reguramalingam (2005, Amazon.com) (12/05), Thesis: Buffer Attack-proofing of Binary Code.
Rekha Ramesh (2005, Metallect), Thesis: Automatic Meeting Scheduling Server
Madhu Yennamani (2004, Novomatic), Thesis: Constraint-based Timetable Generation
Ramakrishnan Venkitaraman (2004, QualComm), Thesis: Static Program Analysis of DSP Software Systems
Kunal Patel (2004, Network Inference, Inc.), Thesis: Semantically Processing the Semantic Web
Vinay Ahuja (2003, Intelligenxia, Inc.), Thesis: Strategies for Robocup Soccer
Hemamber Reddy (2004, Metallect Corp), Thesis: Dynamically Navigable VoiceXML
Narayan Annamalai (2002, Intervoice), Thesis: Extensible Translator from HTML to VoiceXML View the thesis
Xinhong Zhou (2001, Sabre, Inc.), Project: Transforming DTDs to DCGs.
Larry King (2000, Honeywell Research Center), Thesis: Course scheduling with Constraint Logic Programming.
C-C Cheng (2000, Cadence Design, Inc.). Project: Automatic Generation of XML Parsers
Nayana Datta (2000, Synopsis, Inc.). Thesis: Semantics-based Interoperability.
Hai-Feng Guo (1999, on to Ph.D.). Thesis: Semantics-based Nemeth to Latex Backtranslation.
Jose Mendez (1998, Argodata), Thesis: NMSU Advising and Audit System.
Shameem Akhter (1998, Intel). Thesis: Knowledgesheet: A Spreadsheet Interface for CLP Programs. See Shameem's latest work: the first book on programing multicore architectures.
Federico Bassetti (1997, Los Alamos National Labs). Thesis: Performance Evaluation of Computer Systems.
Jung-Wook Bang (1997, on to Ph.D. @ Imperial College, UK). Thesis: Automated Medical Diagnosis of Acid-Base Disorders.
Rick Vaupel (1996, Lockheed). Thesis: Visualization of And-Or Parallel Execution.
Haren Babu (1995, IBM.). Thesis: Or-parallelism on Distributed Machines.
Greg Luce (1994, employment info. n/a). Project: Design/Impl. of a Parallelizing Compiler.
Teaching
CS4301; Automated Reasoning
CS4384; Automata Theory
CS3306; Discrete Math for Software Engineers
CS6371; Advanced Programming Lanuages
CS7301; Programming Langs and S/W Engg
CS6374; Computational Logic
CS6389; Formal Methods and Programming Methodology


My full CV (pdf format)


Miscellaneous
European Association for Programming Languages and Systems (EAPLS)
ACM Special Interest Group on Programming Languages (SIGPLAN)
UTD CS Ph.D. Qualifying Exam policy and other related documents.
An easy to follow "Crash Course on Theory of Infinite Sets" by Peter Suber (relates to coinduction)
Partial Evaluation and Futamura Projections
A great resource for learning about Logic: Stanford Encyclopaedia of Philosophy
A position paper: Language Based Software Engineering
Advice on Writing and Research
Everything you wanted to know about an academic career but were afraid to ask. ( in pdf).
Talk given to UTD CS Ph.D. students (first delivery in 2004)
Dijkstra's 3 Golden Rules for Successful Scientific Research
Some of my favorite quotes
Bylaws of the Erik Jonsson School of Engineering and Computer Science (I chaired the school committee that wrote these bylaws)
Math Genealogy Project
India's contribution to Mathematics:
             positional number system, and zero
In Memoriam: Frank Harary
In Memoriam: Arthur Karshmar
When I am not doing Computer Science...
A parody authored by my daughter, Ritika
Pictures of the beautiful Organ Mountains in Las Cruces, New Mexico, taken by me
A brief guide to a tour of southern NM that I prepared
Hits since 05/20/05:

