Professor: Gregory Shakhnarovich
University: TTI Chicago
URL: http://ttic.uchicago.edu/~gregory
Description: 	Greg Shakhnarovich	
Professor
Toyota Technological Institute at Chicago
6045 S. Kenwood Ave.
Chicago, IL 60637

e-mail gregory at ttic dot edu
tel +1 (773) 834-2572
fax +1 (773) 834-9881

Brief bio:

I am a Professor at Toyota Technological Institute ad Chicago (TTIC), a philanthropically endowed academic computer science institute located on the University of Chicago campus.
I also hold a part-time faculty appointment at the University of Chicago Department of Computer Science.
I lead the Perception And Learning Systems (PALS) group.
Prior to coming to TTIC, I was a post-doctoral researcher at the Department of Computer Science of Brown University, working with Michael Black. I received my PhD degree at MIT where I worked at CSAIL with Trevor Darrell. I obtained my MSc degree at the Computer Science Department of the Technion, Israel Institute of Technology in Haifa, Israel, and my undergraduate degree in Math and CS from Hebrew University in Jerusalem, Israel.

My CV: PDF




Research interests:
Image understanding,including standard tasks like object detection and panoptic segmentation, and novel definitions of scene parsing and understanding
Perception of 3D world from images and videos
Vision and language, in particular purposeful/informative image descriptions and using language as input to recognition tasks (e.g., "open vocabulary detection"
Synthesis and perception of non-photorealistic imagery; image synthesis and stylization, and lifting 2D imagery to 3D
Automatic processing and recognition of sign language
Machine learning: example-base methods, un-, self- and semi-supervised learning of representations
Publications
While I work on a better presentation of my current and recent projects, you can find the up to date list of my publications here (sorted by year).
Current student collaborators
Xiaodan Du (TTIC, PhD)
Jiahao Li (TTIC, PhD)
Haochen Wang (TTIC, PhD)
Marceo Sandoval-Castañeda (TTIC, PhD)
Former students
Igor Vasiljevic (TTIC, PhD) → Research Scientist, Toyota Research Institute
Steven Basart (U. of Chicago, PhD) → Research Engineer, SpaceX
Nick Kolkin (TTIC, PhD) → Research Engineer, Adobe Research
Ruotian Luo (TTIC, PhD)→ Software Engineer, Waymo
Reza Mostajabi (TTIC PhD) → Research Engineer at Zendar, Inc.
Payman Yadollahpour (TTIC PhD) → Postdoc at UPItt/MIT CSAIL
Shubhendu Trivedi (TTIC PhD) → Institute Fellow, ICERM/Brown University, and Research Affiliate, MIT CSAIL
Gustav Larsson (PhD, U. of Chicago) → Research Engineer at Apple, Inc.
Theses

PhD thesis, MIT, 2006: Learning Task-Specific Similarity. Advisor: Trevor Darrell.

MsC thesis, Technion, 2001: Statistical Data Cloning for Machine Learning. Advisors: Ran El-Yaniv and Yoram Baram.

Teaching
I regularly teach two courses at TTIC/University of Chicago:
TTIC 31020, Introduction to Machine Learning (next offering by me: Autumn 2022)
TTIC 31040, Introduction to Computer Vision (next offering: Winter 2022)


