Professor: Guangmo Tong
University: University of Delaware
URL: https://udel.edu/~amotong
Description: COMPUTATIONAL DATA SCIENCE LAB 
HOME
RESEARCH
PUBLICATION
GROUP
TEACHING
JOIN US
Home
Home
Home
















Guangmo (Amo) Tong, PhD
Lab Director
Email: amotong at udel dot edu
Computational Data Science Lab

Department of Computer and Information Sciences
University of Delaware




We are the Computational Data Science lab at the University of Delaware. We are working on developing algorithmic and machine learning solutions towards effective and efficient decision makings in various systems, such as computational social networks, real-time embedded systems, and autonomous systems.




We are particularly interested in theoretically-grounded solutions with performance guarantees concerning approximation ratio, time and space complexity, learnability and generalization bounds, and other quantitative metrics that are context-dependent.




Research keywords: query-decision regression, social contagion management, data-driven decision making, combinatorial optimization, structured prediction.

Recent News
☸ [Hiring] 2024 & 2025: We are looking for excellent candidates for Ph.D. positions in the Department of Computer and Information Sciences at the University of Delaware.
Research areas: algorithms and network science, AI and machine learning, social network analysis, and real-time embedded systems.
Note: we are particularly looking for students with math/stats degrees.


☸ Solving one optimization problem by leveraging the solutions to another optimization problem is possible. Paper Query-decision Regression between Shortest Path and Minimum Steiner Tree accepted by PAKDD 2024.


☸ [Feb 2024] Jiahao joined our lab as a Ph.D. Student. Welcome!


☸Dr. Tong received the 2024 Outstanding Faculty Research Award, Department of Computer and Information Sciences, University of Delaware.


☸ [Jan 2024] Dr. Tong serves as reviewer/TPC for NeurIPS 2023, NeurIPS 2023 GLFrontiers Workshop, ICML 2024, ICLR 2024, TheWebConf 2024, and ICLR Blogpost 2024.


☸ [Dec 2023] Dhana joined our lab as a research assistant to study vision-based combinatorial optimization. Welcome!


☸ [Nov 2023] Nagendra joined our lab a research assistant to study neural adjacency detection. Welcome!


☸ Machine learning algorithms can solve combinatorial optimization problem by LOOKING at the graph. Paper VN-Solver: Vision-based Neural Solver for Combinatorial Optimization over Graphs accepted by CIKM 2023.Congratulations, Mina!




Communities are different.

Our Sponsors
Computational Data Science Lab

220 Smith Hall
University of Delaware
DE, United States

© Copyright Computational Data Science Lab. All Rights Reserved
Designed by BootstrapMade

