Professor: Haewoon Kwak
University: Indiana University
URL: https://luddy.indiana.edu/contact/profile/index.html?Haewoon_Kwak
Description: Skip to Content
Skip to Main Navigation
Skip to Search

Indiana University Bloomington

Luddy School of
Informatics, Computing, and Engineering
About
Admissions
Academics
Student Life
Research
Careers
Alumni & Giving
Contact
PeopleNewsEvents
Home
Contact
profile
PROFILE OF HAEWOON KWAK

 
Haewoon Kwak
Associate Professor

Email: hwkwak@iu.edu
Office: Luddy Center for Artificial Intelligence (1015 E. 11th St.) | Room: 2022
Website: https://haewoon.io/
Education
Ph.D. in Computer Science at KAIST, 2011
M.S. in Computer Science at KAIST, 2007
B.S. in Computer Science at KAIST, 2006
Biography

Dr. Haewoon Kwak is an Associate professor at the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering, Indiana University Bloomington. He and Prof. An co-run a research group, Soda Lab, focusing on studying social phenomena through large-scale data and computational tools, aiming to tackle big societal problems.

Dr. Kwak's research lies in the intersection of network science, machine learning, and computational social science across diverse domains, such as news media, online games, social media, sports, politics, and so on. He is a lead author of "What is Twitter, a social network or news media?" (WWW 2010), which has been cited more than 9,000 times. His work has been featured by Nature News, ACM Tech News, BBC, The Times, The Economist, Slate, Scientific American, and many others. He has been a member of SPC/PCs of major CS and computational social science conferences.

Luddy Research Areas
Crosscutting
Data Science @Luddy
Intradepartmental
Complex Networks and Systems
Computing, Culture, and Society
Ethics and Values in Digital Society
Social Informatics
Departmental
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
Other Research Areas
Social Computing
Game Analytics
Centers
Center for Complex Networks and Systems Research
Update your profile
Request Information
People Directory
Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering resources and social media channels
LUDDY INTRANET SERVICE REQUESTS
Twitter
 
Facebook
 
Instagram
 
YouTube
 
LinkedIn

Accessibility | College Scorecard | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2024 The Trustees of Indiana University

