Professor: Hamid Karimi
University: Utah State University
URL: https://www.usu.edu/cs/directory/faculty/karimi-hamid
Description: Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy.I agree
Skip to content
QUICK LINKS
MyUSU
SEARCH
Computer Science
College of Science
About
Students
Advising
Research
Directory
Assessment
Employment
Contact Us
Hamid Karimi

Computer Science

Assistant Professor

Contact Information
Office Location: Old Main 418
Phone: 435-797-1233
Email: hamid.karimi@usu.edu
Additional Information:

Website
Emphasis

Social Media Mining, Educational Data Mining, Machine Learning, Graph Mining, AI for Social Good.

Biography

Dr. Hamid Karimi completed his Ph.D. in Computer Science at Michigan State University (MSU) in 2021, with a primary research focus on artificial intelligence (AI) for social good. During his doctoral studies, he explored several intriguing areas, such as AI in education, computational politics, and misinformation detection. As a member of the interdisciplinary Teachers in Social Media project, he concentrated on creating innovative and efficient data mining and machine learning algorithms to enhance the quality of PK-12 education. Throughout his academic journey, Dr. Karimi has been honored with multiple awards. These include the Best Paper Award at the IEEE-ACM International Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining (ASONAM 2018), the Outstanding Graduate Student Service Award (2019), the Dissertation Completion Award (2020), and the International Faculty Recognition Award at Utah State University (2022). In August 2021, Dr. Karimi joined Utah State University as an Assistant Professor (tenure-track) in Computer Science, where he now leads the Data Science and Applications lab. The overarching goal of the Data Science and Applications (DSA) lab is to devise novel, efficient, and practical solutions to enhance the social impact of data science. The lab focuses on multiple research areas, including Social Media Mining, Educational Data Mining, and Cross-Disciplinary Applications of Data Science in Science and Engineering fields. By leveraging advanced data mining techniques and machine learning algorithms, the lab aims to extract valuable insights from large and complex datasets across various domains.

Computer Science
CONTACT

4205 Old Main Hill
Office 414 Old Main Bldg
Logan, UT 84322
(435) 797-2451

Email: usucs@aggies.usu.edu

DIRECTORY
Faculty Directory
Staff Directory
EMPLOYMENT
Assistant/Associate Professor
ACCREDITATION
ABET Accreditation Commission
Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact
Terms of Use Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Admin

