Professor: Han Liu 0001
University: Northwestern University
URL: https://www.mccormick.northwestern.edu/research-faculty/directory/profiles/liu-han.html
Description: NEWS & EVENTS
CONTACT & VISIT
INFO FOR
Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Companies
Search this site
Search
ABOUT
Overview
Discover our philosophy rooted in whole-brain thinking.
Leadership
Meet our deans, chairs, school leaders, and advisory council.
Departments & Institutes
Explore our academic departments, centers, and institutes that provide many opportunities for cross-disciplinary collaboration.
Facilities
View our facilities located in several connected buildings on the Evanston campus, plus a space in San Francisco.
Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion
See McCormick’s commitment that all students, faculty, and staff are welcome, respected, and able to fully engage in our community.
History
View our growth and timeline since the school was established in 1909.
Learn what it means to become a whole-brain engineer.

It takes a different way of thinking to connect disparate fields, put big ideas into action, and imagine what’s next.
LEARN MORE

ACADEMICS
Academics Overview
Explore our degrees, programs, courses, and other enrichment opportunities.
All Areas of Study
View a chart of all study areas cross-categorized by degree type.
Undergraduate Study
Explore majors, minors, student groups, research, enrichment, and support opportunities. Plan your visit to campus and start your application.
Graduate Study
Explore our full-time and part-time master's and PhD offerings and learn how to apply.
Departments and Programs
See a list of all academic departments and professional programs.
Apply to Northwestern Engineering
Learn more about the application process for your program of interest.
QUICK LINKS
Undergraduate Student Resources
Undergraduate Advising
Graduate Student Resources
Academic Integrity
Graduation Information
RESEARCH & FACULTY
Research Areas and Centers
View our interdisciplinary research centers, programs, and collaborations.
Faculty Directory
Meet our award-winning faculty, including several national academy members.
FACULTY FINDER
Search
OFFICES & SERVICES
Office of the Dean
Strategic vision and leadership
Administration, Finance, Facilities, & Planning
Infrastructure support including: finance, HR, facilities/space/safety
Alumni Relations & Development
School-level giving, including annual, estate, and memorial giving
Career Development
Career support including: Cooperative Education (Co-op), internships, service learning, and research
Corporate Engagement
Industry connections and partnerships
Customer Service Center
Reimbursements, office moves, lab, renovations, research appointments, and more
Faculty Affairs
Liaison between engineering faculty and the Provost's Office
Global Initiatives
Opportunities and resources to engage in global scholarly activity
Graduate Studies
MS and PhD student recruitment, admittance, and enrollment
Information Technology
Computer and technology support
Marketing & Communications
Promotion of school activities and consistent brand messaging
McCormick Advising System
Undergraduate student advising
Personal Development StudioLab
Student assistance with both their academic and extracurricular lives
Professional Education
Support for master's degree programs geared toward working or transitioning professionals
Research Offices
Faculty support in pursing/managing external funding for research
Undergraduate Engineering
Operations and administrative support for students and faculty
QUICK LINKS
Academic Departments
Facilities
Lost and Found
Faculty & Staff Resources
IN THIS SECTION
Research and Faculty
Faculty Directory
Faculty Fellows
FACULTY DIRECTORY
Han Liu

Orrington Lunt Professor of Computer Science

Professor of Statistics

Contact
2233 Tech Drive
Mudd Room 3119
Evanston, IL 60208-3109

Email Han Liu
Website

MAGICS Lab

Departments

Computer Science

Education

Ph.D. Machine Learning and Statistics, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA



Biography

Han Liu directs the MAGICS (Modern Artificial General Intelligible and Computer Systems) lab at the Northwestern University. He has been the director of the deep reinforcement learning center at Tencent AI Lab and had been a professor at the Princeton University and Johns Hopkins University. He received a joint PhD in Machine Learning and Statistics from the Machine Learning Department at the Carnegie Mellon University, advised by John Lafferty and Larry Wasserman. His research lies at the intersection of artificial intelligence and computer systems, which deploys statistical machine learning methods on edges and clouds to achieve analytical advantages. Han Liu has received numerous research awards including the Alfred P Sloan Fellowship in Mathematics, the IMS Tweedie New Researcher Award, the ASA Noether Young Scholar Award, the NSF CAREER Award, the Howard B Wentz Award and the Umesh Gavaskar Memorial Best Dissertation Award. He is now serving as associate editors for the Journal of American Statistical Association, the Electronic Journal of Statistics, the Technometrics, and the Journal of Portfolio Management.

Research Interests

 Han Liu directs the MAGICS(Modern Artificial General Intelligible and Computer Systems) lab at Northwestern University. He is chairing the Graduate Program Enhancement Committee (GPEC) at Northwestern Computer Science. He has been the director of the deep reinforcement learning center at Tencent AI Lab and has been a professor at Princeton University and Johns Hopkins University. He received a joint PhD in Machine Learning and Statistics from the Machine Learning Department at Carnegie Mellon University, advised by John Lafferty and Larry Wasserman. His research integrates modern artificial intelligence and computer systems, which exploits large foundation models and probabilistic graphical models to revolutionize science, engineering, and business. Han Liu has received numerous research awards including the Presidential Early Career Awards for Scientists and Engineers, the Alfred P Sloan Fellowship in Mathematics, the IMS Tweedie New Researcher Award, the ASA Noether Young Scholar Award, the NSF CAREER Award, the Howard B Wentz Award and the Umesh Gavaskar Memorial Best Dissertation Award. He has been associate editors for the Journal of American Statistical Association, the Electronic Journal of Statistics, the Technometrics, and the Journal of Portfolio Management. He has also been seriving as area chairs for NeurIPS, ICML, ICLR conferences.

» Learn more



Selected Publications
Cao, Yuan; Neykov, Matey; Liu, Han, High-temperature structure detection in ferromagnets, Information and Inference (2022).
Zhang, Kaiqing; Yang, Zhuoran; Liu, Han; Zhang, Tong; Basar, Tamer, Finite-Sample Analysis for Decentralized Batch Multiagent Reinforcement Learning with Networked Agents, IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control (2021).
Lu, Junwei; Han, Fang; Liu, Han, Robust Scatter Matrix Estimation for High Dimensional Distributions with Heavy Tail, IEEE Transactions on Information Theory 67(8):5283-5304 (2021).
Ma, Cong; Lu, Junwei; Liu, Han, Inter-Subject Analysis, Journal of the American Statistical Association 116(534):746-755 (2021).
Tan, Kean Ming; Lu, Junwei; Zhang, Tong; Liu, Han, Estimating and inferring the maximum degree of stimulus-locked time-varying brain connectivity networks, Biometrics 77(2):379-390 (2020).
Lin, Kevin Z.; Liu, Han; Roeder, Kathryn, Covariance-Based Sample Selection for Heterogeneous Data, Journal of the American Statistical Association 116(533):54-67 (2020).
Lu, Junwei; Kolar, Mladen; Liu, Han, Kernel Meets Sieve, Journal of the American Statistical Association 115(532):2084-2099 (2020).
Rosenblum, Michael; Fang, Ethan X.; Liu, Han, Optimal, two-stage, adaptive enrichment designs for randomized trials, using sparse linear programming, Journal of the Royal Statistical Society. Series B: Statistical Methodology 82(3):749-772 (2020).
Ge, Jason; Li, Xingguo; Jiang, Haoming; Liu, Han; Zhang, Tong; Wang, Mengdi; Zhao, Tuo, Picasso, Journal of Machine Learning Research 20 (2019).
Tan, Kean Ming; Lu, Junwei; Zhang, Tong; Liu, Han, Layer-wise learning strategy for nonparametric tensor product smoothing spline regression and graphical models, Journal of Machine Learning Research 20 (2019).
Neykov, Matey; Liu, Han, Property testing in high-dimensional ising models, Annals of Statistics 47(5):2472-2503 (2019).
Wang, Qing; Xiong, Jiechao; Han, Lei; Sun, Peng; Liu, Han; Zhang, Tong, Exponentially weighted imitation learning for batched historical data, Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 31:6288-6297 (2018).
Eisenach, Carson; Liu, Han, Efficient, certifiably optimal clustering with applications to latent variable graphical models, Mathematical Programming 176(1-2):137-173 (2019).
Yang, Zhuoran; Ning, Yang; Liu, Han, On semiparametric exponential family graphical models, Journal of Machine Learning Research 19:1-59 (2018).
Neykov, Matey; Lu, Junwei; Liu, Han, Combinatorial inference for graphical models, Annals of Statistics 47(2):795-827 (2019).
Zhou, Wen Xin; Bose, Koushiki; Fan, Jianqing; Liu, Han, A new perspective on robust M-estimation, Annals of Statistics 46(5):1904-1931 (2018).
Li, Xingguo; Lu, Junwei; Arora, Raman; Haupt, Jarvis; Liu, Han; Wang, Zhaoran; Zhao, Tuo, Symmetry, Saddle Points, and Global Optimization Landscape of Nonconvex Matrix Factorization, IEEE Transactions on Information Theory 65(6):3489-3514 (2019).
Tan, Kean Ming; Wang, Zhaoran; Zhang, Tong; Liu, Han; Cook, R. Dennis, A convex formulation for high-dimensional sparse sliced inverse regression, Biometrika 105(4):769-782 (2018).
 
BACK TO TOP
Northwestern Seal

McCormick School of Engineering,  Northwestern University

Technological Institute, 2145 Sheridan Road, Evanston, IL 60208

view all contact info

AdmissionsFaculty DirectoryGive to McCormickTech Room Finder / MapsEmergency InformationNorthwestern HomeTech Lost and FoundReport an Accessibility Issue
McCormick on twitterMcCormick on facebookMcCormick on linkedinMcCormick on instagramMcCormick on youtube
© 2024  Robert R. McCormick School of Engineering and Applied Science, Northwestern University  Disclaimer

