Professor: Hassan A. Karimi
University: University of Pittsburgh
URL: http://gis.sis.pitt.edu/
Description: SCI HOME | PITT HOME | FIND PEOPLE | LOGIN
Geoinformatics Laboratory "Location Thinkers"
School of Computing and Information
Home
Projects
Publications
People
Courses
Contact Us
What is Geoinformatics?

Geoinformatics encompasses a collection of special techniques, technologies, and tools for the acquisition, processing, management, analysis, and presentation of geospatial data. Geoinformatics is based on a range of synergetic activities including geospatial modeling, geospatial analysis, geospatial databases, geospatial technologies, information systems, systems design, spatial cognition, human-computer interaction, mobile computing, wired and wireless network technologies. Today, numerous applications are benefiting from geoinformatics techniques, technologies, and tools and with recent advances in geoinformatics and related technologies, such as Web services and grid computing, new geoprocessing paradigms and applications are expected to emerge. go to Wikipedia for more...

 

Books
Author(s)/Editor(s)	Title	Publisher	Year
Karimi, H. A. and Karimi, B.	Geospatial Data Science Techniques and Applications	Taylor & Francis	2018
Karimi, H. A.	Indoor Wayfinding and Navigation	Taylor & Francis	2015
Karimi, H. A.	Big Data: Techniques and Technologies in Geoinformatics	Taylor & Francis	2014
Karimi, H. A.	Advanced Location-Based Technologies and Services	Taylor & Francis	2013
Karimi, H. A.	Universal Navigation on Smartphones	Springer	2011
Karimi, H. A. and Akinci, B.	CAD and GIS Integration	Taylor & Francis	2010
Karimi, H. A.	Handbook of Research on Geoinformatics	IGI Global	2009
Karimi, H. A. and Hammad, A.	Telegeoinformatics: Location-Based Computing and Services	Taylor & Francis	2004
Holt, P. and Karimi, H. A.	Data Base Management Systems: A Study Guide	Athabasca University, Alberta, Canada	1993

 

Lab Director
Dr. Hassan A. Karimi
Research interests:
Computational Geometry,
Machine Learning,
Location-Based Services,
Navigation Applications,
Mobile Computing,
Geoinformatics,
Geospatial Information Systems,
Distributed/Parallel Computing
Education:
PhD Geomatics Engineering, University of Calgary
MS Computer Science, University of Calgary
BS Computer Science, University of New Brunswick

 

Geoinformatics Concept Diagrams
Geoinformatics Layers
Interdisciplinary Fields
Location Based Services (LBS)
Navigation


Geoinformatics Laboratory

University of Pittsburgh
School of Computing and Information


135 North Bellefield Avenue
Room 407
Pittsburgh, PA 15260

(412) 624-8858

© 2018 Geoinformatics Lab, School of Computing and Information, University of Pittsburgh

