Professor: Heng Ji
University: Univ. of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
URL: http://blender.cs.illinois.edu/hengji.html
Description: News
Bio
Publications
BLENDER Lab
Teaching
Professional Service
Grants and Awards
Invited Talks
TAC-KBP

News
We have lined up an all-star team of keynote speakers for ACL2024 Workshop on Language + Molecules: Kyunghyun Cho (NYU+Genentech), Elsa Olivetti (MIT), Marinka Zitnik (Harvard), Huan Sun (OSU) and Lei Li (CMU)! Our program also consists of many excellent research papers and shared task systems!
We have won two Outstanding Paper Awards at NAACL2024 for the LM-Infinite paper and R-Tuning paper! My amazing PhD student Chi Han, the first author of LM-Infinite, will be on academic job market next year! He also has an awesome paper LM-Steer to be presented at ACL2024.
I'm super honored to be selected as a "Young Scientist" by the World Laureates Association again.
We are organizing two workshops at ACL2024: "Language+Molecules" and "Towards Knowledgeable Language Models".
Congratulations to my post-doc Dr. Kuan-Hao Huang for joining Texas A&M University as as a tenure-track assistant professor. He is also recruiting PhD students to start this fall 2024!
My PhD students on academic job market to start in Fall 2025: Carl Edwards (AI for Science and Science for AI), Qingyun Wang (Scholarly Document Understanding).
Upcoming keynote speeches ``Filling in the Semantic Gap between Low-Level Visual Perception and High-Level Language Reasoning" at ACL2024 Workshop on Advances in Language and Vision Research, the 35th Conference on Computational Linguistics and Speech Processing (ROCLING2024); ``Joint Molecule and Language Modeling for Drug Discovery" at ACL2024 Workshop on Scholarly Document Processing; ``Knowledge Editing and Updating for Large Language Models: Theories and Practices" at ACL2024 Workshop on Knowledge Graphs and Large Language Models (KaLLM).
Upcoming invited talks: ``Transforming LLMs into Multimodal Agents" at ICML2024 Workshop on LLM Agents; ``Filling in the Semantic Gap between Low-Level Visual Perception and High-Level Language Reasoning" at Google DeepMind, ECCV2024 Workshop on Evaluating and Understanding Visual Capabilities and Shortcomings of Foundation Models.
I have many positions for post-docs, PhD/master RAs, hourly paid master/undergraduate RAs, summer interns, software engineers and project managers available to work on multimodal knowledge representation and extraction, knowledge discovery and information extraction on news domain and scientific domain, and knowledge-empowered large language models, students please fill in this survey if interested.
I was asked by our college of engineering to share experiences on seeking and securing funding. I’m sharing some slides publicly in case they are useful for young PIs.
Wrote some notes about research skills for new students: "the art of doing good research".
Gave a controversial speech "Call me a leader, not a woman leader" and its Chinese translation, and its high school version.
Been at news: Amazon Science featuring our recent research; ECOLE; CABBI; National Podcast: ``Unlikely Paths"; fake news propagation pattern mining; Cross-cultural Understanding through Norm Discovery; NAACL2021 Best Demo Paper Award; DARPA SemaFor Project; Misinformation correction; Army Research Lab news about our work on cross-lingual structure transfer ; COVID-19 Knowledge Graph Construction and here; Feminism; DARPA KAIROS project.




