Professor: Heni Ben Amor
University: Arizona State University
URL: https://cidse.engineering.asu.edu/directory/ben-amor-heni
Description: Skip to content
Skip to main content
Report an accessibility problem
ASU Home
My ASU
Colleges and Schools
Sign In
Ira A. Fulton Schools of Engineering
School of Computing and Augmented Intelligence
Degree Programs
Students
People
Research
Giving
About
SCAI’s AI Innovation Challenge project wins at the Intel Cup

A team of computer science students has been awarded second prize for their AI-powered tutor at the event in Shanghai.

Learn more
	
SCAI news
Emerging machine learning expert leads Kenya AI workshop

ASU research team uses satellite data to combat food insecurity and climate change.

read more
SCAI celebrates record number of graduates

With an eye on employability and excellence, Director Ross Maciejewski charts forward course at ASU.

read more
ASU team creates 3D bone atlas to stop elder abuse

The AI-powered project combines software engineering and forensic science.

read more
Read more SCAI news
Explore our diverse programs

Our programs in computer science support the evolution of the computing and informatics disciplines, and the integration of computer and information sciences with other disciplines such as biology, geography, anthropology, public health, urban planning and mathematics.

Degrees offered: BA, BS, MS, MCS, PhD

Our computer systems engineering programs are concerned with the analysis, design and evaluation of computer systems, both hardware and software. This field of study not only focuses on how computer systems work, but also how they integrate into the larger picture.

Degrees offered: BSE, MS, PhD

The data science, analytics and engineering program focuses on development of new systems and algorithms for collecting, cleaning, storing, valuing, aggregating, fusing, summarizing, managing and drawing inferences from high dimension, high volume, heterogeneous data streams.

Degrees offered: PhD

The engineering management program is designed to provide the graduate with the competencies for effective management and leadership of engineering-driven enterprises. The curriculum provides a breadth of engineering science and design with depth in one specific engineering area suitable for practice. Degrees offered: BSE, DEng

Our industrial engineering programs concentrate on the design, operation and improvement of the systems required to meet societal needs for products and services. The program combines knowledge from the physical, mathematical and social sciences to help design efficient manufacturing and service systems that integrate people, equipment and information.

Degrees offered: BSE, MS, PhD

The discipline of informatics makes connections between the work people do and technology that can support that work. It combines aspects of software engineering, human-computer interaction, decision theory, organizational behavior and information technology.

Degrees offered: BSE

The artificial intelligence concentration of robotics and autonomous systems focuses on the algorithmic aspects of robotics, including statistical machine learning, computer vision, natural language processing, knowledge retrieval and reasoning, and formal methods of planning.

Degrees offered: MS with artificial intelligence concentration

Our software engineering programs blend engineering, computing, project leadership and software construction. Students engineer software solutions in application areas such as Web applications, mobile systems, embedded systems, or graphics and game development.

Degrees offered: BS, MS

School of Computing and Augmented Intelligence

Contact Us

Support ASU

0
Maps and LocationsJobsDirectoryContact ASUMy ASU
Copyright and TrademarkAccessibilityPrivacyTerms of UseEmergency

ASU websites use cookies to enhance user experience, analyze site usage, and assist with outreach and enrollment. By continuing to use this site, you are giving us your consent to do this. Learn more about cookies on ASU websites in our Privacy Statement.

Ok, I agree

