Professor: Hongtu Zhu
University: University of North Carolina
URL: https://www.med.unc.edu/bigs2
Description: This website uses cookies and similar technologies to understand visitor experiences. By using this website, you consent to UNC-Chapel Hill's cookie usage in accordance with their Privacy Notice.
I Accept
Skip to the end of the utility bar
UNC SCHOOL of MEDICINE
UNC Chapel Hill UNC Health Intranet Login
Skip to main content
Biostatistics and Imaging Genomics analysis lab – Statistics & Signal
BIG-S2
Home
People
Bibliography
Projects
Data
Software
Collaboration
Seminar
Group Life
Welcome to the BIG-S2 Group

We have diverse interests in developing novel statistical methods for challenging issues in real applications and solving their underlying methodological issues in statistics. Our past and present statistical projects include diagnostic measures, stochastic approximation algorithm, functional data analysis，deep learning methods， structural equation models, mixed effect models, spline regression, reinforcement learning, missing data problems, causal inference, variable selections, empirical likelihood, mixture models and regression tree.

We have developed methods and software for the analysis of the data from a state-of-the-art magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technique including MRI, functional MRI, and diffusion tensor image. We have developed and enhanced tools in data mining, deep learning, reinforcement learning, machine learning, Monte Carlo method, causal inference, and statistical modeling, and applied them to scientific problems to understand the function and structure of different organs (e.g., brain or heart). Our collaborators and we work closely to study healthy subjects and diseased patients.

 

functional MRI activity

 

We have been working on integrating the genomic, epigenetic, proteomic, and metabolic information to try to understand the biological mechanisms behind various phenotypes. We work closely with biologists, clinicians, oncologists to study the genetic driver events for disease diagnosis, prognosis, and tumor evolutions.

Biomedical Research Imaging Center

 

 

 

 

 

Useful Links
Highlighted Publications
Reinforcement Learning Seminar

Tony Qin, DiDi AI Labs: Deep Reinforcement Learning in a Ride-sharing Marketplace (Oct. 7, 2020)

Knowledge Portal

Brain Imaging Genetics Knowledge Portal (BIG-KP): Genetics Discoveries in Human Brain by Big Data Integration.

BIG-S2 Github

Recent software packages.

ARL Seminar Bilibili Channel
ARL Seminar Youtube Channel
         
Usefule Sites:
UNC BIOS
UNC BRIC
UK BioBank
ADNI
ABCD
HCP
GTEx
CommonMind

Free website hit counter

© 2024 The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

 Accessibility Privacy Statement Intranet Notice of Privacy Practices Aviso de Practicas Privadas Nondiscrimination Notice Aviso de no Discriminacion Surprise Billing and Good Faith Estimate Notices Avisos de facturas médicas sorpresas y avisos de presupuestos de buena fe

