Professor: Hridesh Rajan
University: Iowa State University
URL: http://www.cs.iastate.edu/~hridesh
Description: Skip to main content
ISU Index Menu
iastate.edu
Index
ISU Quick Links Menu
Directory
Maps
Safety
Sign Ons
Department of Computer Science
Search form
Search
 
Main menu
Main Menu
HOME
FUTURE STUDENTS
CURRENT STUDENTS
+
PEOPLE
+
RESEARCH
SUPPORT CS
ABOUT
+
Hridesh Rajan
Affiliated Faculty
People
Affiliate Professor

Education

PhD, Computer Science, The University of Virginia, 2005 
MS, Computer Science, The University of Virginia, 2004.                        
BTech, Computer Science & Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Varanasi, 2000.    

Selected Books and Publications

An Experiential Introduction to Principles of Programming Languages, MIT Press, May 2022, 304 pp., ISBN 9780262045452.
On Decomposing a Deep Neural Network into Modules, ESEC/FSE’2020.
Fairify: Fairness Verification of Neural Networks. ICSE’23.

Selected Awards and Recognitions

2022 ISU Award for Early Achievement in Departmental Leadership
2020 American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) Fellow
2020 Facebook Probability and Programming Award
2018-19 Fulbright U.S. Scholar
2017 ACM Distinguished Scientist
2009 US National Science Foundation (NSF) CAREER Award
Various best paper and distinguished paper awards

Recent Service Roles

General Chair, SPLASH 2021, the ACM SIGPLAN conference on Systems, Programming, Languages, and Applications: Software for Humanity
General Chair, SPLASH 2020, the ACM SIGPLAN conference on Systems, Programming, Languages, and Applications: Software for Humanity 
Program Committee, 47th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE 2025)
Program Committee, 46th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE 2024)
Program Committee, 39th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE 2024)
See CV for more details.

Bio

Hridesh Rajan holds a Ph.D. and an MS from the University of Virginia, both in Computer Science. His B.Tech. in Computer Science and Engineering is from the Indian Institute of Technology, Varanasi (formerly IT-BHU). Dr. Rajan is the Kingland Professor of Computer Science at Iowa State University, where he served three years (2017-2019) as the founding Professor-in-charge (equivalent to a director role) of Data Science Programs. During this period, he founded the annual Midwest Big Data Summer School to deliver broadly accessible data science training, served on the steering committee of the Midwest Big Data Hub, and led TADS (Theoretical and Applied Data Science), a cross-campus transdisciplinary research initiative of faculty and students interested in foundations and applications of Data Science. Since 2019, he has been serving as the Department Chair of Computer Science, where he oversaw a significant growth period in students, faculty, staff, research funding, and philanthropic support. During his tenure as Department Chair, Dr. Rajan led the effort in diversity and inclusion leading to departmental broadening participation in computing plan and a 45% increase in female enrollment. Dr. Rajan has led the creation of new majors, minors and certificates including the M.S. degree in Artificial Intelligence, the Data Science Minor, Certificate, and B.S. degree programs, and the B.A. degree in Computer Science. Rajan is a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), a Fulbright Scholar, and an ACM Distinguished Scientist. His research interests are in Software Engineering and Programming Languages where he is most known for his design of the Ptolemy programming language that showed how to modularly reason about crosscutting concerns and the Boa programming language and its infrastructure that decreases the barriers to data-driven software engineering. He has been recognized by an NSF CAREER award in 2009, by the LAS Early Achievement in Research Award in 2010, a Big-12 Fellowship in 2012, an ACM Senior Membership in 2014, an Exemplary Mentor for Junior Faculty Award in 2017, a Kingland Professorship in 2017, an ACM Distinguished Membership in 2017, a US-UK Fulbright Scholarship in 2018, a Facebook Probability and Programming Award in 2020, and an Early Achievement in Departmental Leadership Award in 2022. He served on the editorial board of IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering and ACM SIGSOFT Software Engineering Notes, and currently serves on the advisory board of Proceedings of the ACM on Programming Languages and on the editorial board of Automated Software Engineering Journal. He was a Member of Technical Staff at Bell Labs, Lucent Technologies in Bangalore India from 2000 - 2001. Prof. Rajan also serves on ABET's Computing Accreditation Commission (CAC) as a commissioner.

Area of Expertise: 
Data Science
Programming Languages
Software Engineering
Education: 
Ph.D., Computer Science, The University of Virginia, 2005
M.S., Computer Science, The University of Virginia, 2004
B.Tech, Computer Science & Engineering, IIT Varanasi, 2000
Contact
Hridesh Rajan's Webpage
Publications: DBLP Publications
Tags: data scienceBig Data AnalyticsCyberinfrastructure for Big DataSpecification and Verification of Data-intensive ProgramsDependable Data ScienceFairness Trustworthiness and Accountability of Machine Learningcapsule-oriented programmingpaniniBoa projectLarge-scale MSRClasspectsEosquantified typed eventsPtolemy

College of Liberal Arts and Sciences

 Internal

Department of Computer Science
226 Atanasoff Hall
2434 Osborn Dr
Ames, IA 50011-1090
Phone (515) 294-4377


Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Site Index
Site map

Copyright © 2024
Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved.

Non-discrimination Policy
Privacy Policy
Digital Access & Accessibility

