Professor: Hui Xiong 0001
University: Rutgers University
URL: http://datamining.rutgers.edu/
Description: HOME
Publications
Selected List
My DBLP
Google Scholar
Professional Activities
Services
Talks
Research
OVERVIEW
Group
Projects
Teaching
Previous Semesters
Fall 2014
Misc
Links
Photos
My Libra
Dr. Hui Xiong, Distinguished Professor

Fellow of AAAS and IEEE

Management Science and Information Systems Department
Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey

Office: 1 Washington Park, Room 1066
Tel: 1-973-353-5261
Fax: 1-973-353-5003
Email: hxiong@rutgers.edu

Short Biography

Dr. Hui Xiong received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Minnesota - Twin Cities, USA, in 2005, the B.E. degree in Automation from the University of Science and Technology of China (USTC), Hefei, China, and the M.S. degree in Computer Science from the National University of Singapore (NUS), Singapore. He is currently a Distinguished Professor at Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey, where he received the 2018 Ram Charan Management Practice Award as the Grand Prix winner from the Harvard Business Review, RBS Dean's Research Professorship (2016), two-year early promotion/tenure (2009), the Rutgers University Board of Trustees Research Fellowship for Scholarly Excellence (2009), the ICDM-2011 Best Research Paper Award (2011), the Junior Faculty Teaching Excellence Award (2007), Dean's Award for Meritorious Research (2010, 2011, 2013, 2015) at Rutgers Business School, the 2017 IEEE ICDM Outstanding Service Award (2017), and the AAAI-2021 Best Paper Award (2021). Dr. Xiong is also a Distinguished Guest Professor (Grand Master Chair Professor) at the University of Science and Technology of China (USTC). For his outstanding contributions to data mining and mobile computing, he was elected an ACM Distinguished Scientist in 2014, an IEEE Fellow and an AAAS Fellow in 2020.

Dr. Xiong's general area of research is data and knowledge engineering, with a focus on developing effective and efficient data analysis techniques for emerging data intensive applications. His research has been supported in part by the National Science Foundation (NSF), IBM Research, SAP Corporation, Panasonic USA Inc., Awarepoint Corp., Citrix Systems Inc., and Rutgers University. He has published prolifically in refereed journals and conference proceedings, such as IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, the VLDB Journal, INFORMS Journal on Computing, Machine Learning, IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing (TMC) , and ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD). His book, titled "Encyclopedia of GIS", has been recognized as the Top 10 Most Popular Computer Science Book authored by Chinese Scholars at Springer.

Dr. Xiong currently serves as a co-Editor-in-Chief of Encyclopedia of GIS (Springer) and an Associate Editor of IEEE Transactions on Data and Knowledge Engineering (TKDE), IEEE Transactions on Big Data (TBD), ACM Transactions on Knowledge Discovery from Data (TKDD) and ACM Transactions on Management Information Systems (TMIS). He has served regularly on the organization and program committees of numerous conferences, including as a Program Co-Chair of the Industrial and Government Track for the 18th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD), a Program Co-Chair for the IEEE 2013 International Conference on Data Mining (ICDM), a General Co-Chair for the IEEE 2015 International Conference on Data Mining (ICDM), and a Program Co-Chair of the Research Track for the 24th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD2018) .

Dr. Xiong has been interviewed and quoted by local, national and international media, such as Forbes, Xinhua News Agency, and the Wall Street Journal. Also, the Economist has featured his research work for crime prevention in 2016 (Economist Article Title: Cutpurse capers). Moreover, his pioneer work on talent analytics has been featured by the Harvard Business Review.

"I want my life to be gain, and not loss; to be good, and not evil; to be success, and not failure."

