Professor: Huzefa Rangwala
University: George Mason University
URL: https://cs.gmu.edu/~hrangwal
Description: Home
News
Publications (Google Scholar)
Students
Projects 
Reading Group
Teaching 
Software
Service
Contact
Huzefa Rangwala
Ph.D., Univ. of Minnesota - Twin Cities, USA
Professor
Department of Computer Science
George Mason University
Fairfax,
VA 22030, USA
Tel: +1 (703)-993-3826
Email: 'rangwala', @ 'cs.gmu.edu'
Directions: Google Maps
 

News Items
 Welcomed 9 undergraduate students for our NSF Sponsored REU Site for the 2nd year.
 Mohammad is off for summer internship at TeraData in San Deigo, CA
 Qian is off for summer internship at Amazon A9 Group in the Bay Area
 Zhiyun graduates with her Ph.D. and is working as a postdoctoral scholar at Ohio State University.
 Qian is off to do a summer internship at Facebook in Seattle, WA.
 Zhiyun is off to do a summer internship at Adobe, Inc in San Jose, CA.
 Demo Paper on Trajectory Mining and Visualization Accepted at ECML-PKDD 2017.
 Zhiyun to present paper at EDM 2017 in Wuhan, China.
 Huzefa to present tutorial at KDD 2017 in Halifax, Canada
Paper accepted at ACM RecSys 2017.
Huzefa leads Roundtable discussion at Cyber Learning Conference 2017.
Huzefa presents tutorial at SIAM Data Mining 2017 on Educational Mining.
Congratulations to Azad for defending his Ph.D.
Accepted KDD 2016 Research Paper in Collaboration with DAC, Virginia Tech. University
 Anveshi Charuvaka wins the Outstanding Graduate Student Award for his thesis in 2015.
 Azad and Huzefa are presenting a tutorial at SIAM SDM 2016
Undergraduate Ananya wins OSCAR Student Excellence Award
 Azad is awarded the Summer Graduate Fellowship

I am a Professor of Computer Science at George Mason University. I am affilated with the Bioengineering and Bioinformatics Department at George Mason University. I graduated with a Ph.D. (2008) and M.S. (2005) in Computer Science from the University of Minnesota, Twin Cities (USA) and a B.S. in Computer Engineering from the Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute (2003) in Mumbai, India. I was a Visiting Faculty at the Discovery Analytics Center of Virginia Tech. University, in Artlington, VA, USA (2015-2016).

Research Interests

My research interests include Data Mining and Machine Learning involving fundamental contributions in the areas of

(i) Multi-Task and Transfer Learning (ii) Hierarchical Classification and (iii) Recommender Systems

with applications in three broad areas:

(i) Biomedical Informatics (ii) Educational Data Miningand(iii) Social Network Analysis

My group's focus is on development of novel algorithms, and engineering of effective solutions for real world applications. My research has resulted in development in useful and efficient software that aid inter-disciplinary researchers to make key discoveries, while also producing contributions that have advanced the field of computer science. Research contributions are possible due to funding by

(i) National Science Foundation (NSF) (ii) Navy Research Laboratory (NRL) (iii) National Institutes of Health (NIH) (iv) Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) (v) U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and (vi) Google, Inc.

