Professor: Insup Lee 0001
University: University of Pennsylvania
URL: http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~lee
Description: 

	
		Department of Computer & Information Science
School of Engineering and Applied Science
University of Pennsylvania
	


	


										



Insup Lee is the Cecilia Fitler Moore Professor in the Department of Computer and Information Science and the Director of PRECISE Center in the School of Engineering and Applied Science. He also holds a secondary appointment in the Department of Electrical and Systems Engineering and the Perelman School of Medicine’s Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology, and Informatics. His research interests include cyber-physical systems (CPS), real-time and embedded systems, safe autonomy, runtime assurance and veriﬁcation, internet of medical things, and connected health. The theme of his research activities has been to assure and improve the safety, security, and timeliness of life-critical embedded systems He received IEEE TC-RTS Outstanding Technical Achievement and Leadership Award in 2008, an appreciation award from Ministry of Science, and ACM SIGBED Inaugural Distinguished Leadership Award in 2022. He is an IEEE fellow, an ACM fellow, and an AAAS fellow.

 

A founding co-Editor-in-Chief of ACM Transactions on Computing for Healthcare (HEALTH)

Google Scholar

DBLP

 

Please contact Professor Insup Lee if you are interested in joining his group as a PhD student or Postdoctoral fellow.

 

 

[ About Me ]

	

May 2022:   The Best Paper Award for the 13th ACM/IEEE International Conference on Cyber-Physical Systems (ICCPS 2022) went to the paper entitled Interpretable Detection of Distribution Shifts in Learning Enabled Cyber-Physical Systems by Yahan Yang, Ramneet Kaur, Souradeep Dutta, and Insup Lee. Read more.

August 2020:  Insup Lee and his team partner with Hillrom and Penn Nursing to optimize the use of medical devices in clinical settings to improve patient outcomes. Read more

March 2020:  The inaugural issue of ACM Transactions on Computing for Healthcare (HEALTH) with Insup Lee as Co-Editor-in-Chief has been published and is now available in the ACM Digital Library!

November 2019:   PRECISE members Insup Lee and Oleg Sokolsky, along with Sampath Kannan, Moonzoo Kim, and Mahesh Viswanathan, win the Test-of-Time Award for their 2001 paper "Java-MaC: a run-time assurance tool for Java programs" at the 2019 Conference on Runtime Verification.

 

 

[ All News ]

	

Verisig 2.0: Verification of Neural Network Controllers Using Taylor Model Preconditioning. Radoslav Ivanov, Taylor Carpenter, James Weimer, Rajeev Alur, George Pappas, Insup Lee. Proceedings of the 33rd International Conference on Computer-Aided Verification (CAV), Los Angeles, CA, July 2021.

Detecting OODs as datapoints with High Uncertainty. Ramneet Kaur, Susmit Jha, Anirban Roy, Sangdon Park, Oleg Sokolsky, Insup Lee. Proceedings of Workshop on Uncertainty and Robustness in Deep Learning (UDL), Virtually, July 2021.

ModelGuard: Runtime Validation of Lipschitz-continuous Models. Taylor Carpenter, Radoslav Ivanov, Insup Lee, James Weimer. Proceedings of the 7th IFAC Conference on Analysis and Design of Hybrid Systems (ADHS), Brussels, Belgium, July 2021.

Raproto: An Open Source Platform for Rapid Prototyping of Wearable Medical Devices. Amanda Watson, Hyonyoung Choi, Insup Lee, and James Weimer. Proceedings of the 12th ACM/IEEE International Conference on Cyber-Physical Systems (ICCPS), Nashville, TN, May 2021.

 

 

[ All Publications ]



	



Copyright © 2011-2019 University of Pennsylvania. All Rights Reserved. Site designed by Academic Web Pages.

