Professor: Jaideep Vaidya
University: Rutgers University
URL: https://www.business.rutgers.edu/faculty/jaideep-vaidya
Description: Skip to main content
Open search
Rutgers Business School
Ancillary
Visit rutgers.edu
search.rutgers.edu
Info For
Apply
Giving
ABOUT RBS
PROGRAMS & ADMISSIONS
FACULTY & RESEARCH
INSIGHTS & NEWS
Back to Top
Jaideep Vaidya

Distinguished Professor

AREA OF EXPERTISE MANAGEMENT SCIENCE & INFORMATION SYSTEMS
 973-353-1441   jsvaidya@business.rutgers.edu  CURRICULUM VITAE

Jaideep Vaidya is a Distinguished Professor of Computer Information Systems at Rutgers University, the Director of the Rutgers Institute for Data Science, Learning, and Applications. He received the B.E. degree in Computer Engineering from the University of Mumbai, the M.S. and Ph.D. degree in Computer Science from Purdue University. His general area of research is in security, privacy, data mining, and data management. He has published over 200 technical papers in peer-reviewed journals and conference proceedings, and has received several best paper awards from the premier conferences in data mining, databases, digital government, security, and informatics. He is an ACM Distinguished Scientist, an IEEE and AAAS Fellow and served as the Editor in Chief of the IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing. Notably, the team he led won the first prize in the US-UK Privacy Enhancing Technologies Challenge in the Financial Crime Track.

Academic degrees

Ph.D., Purdue University; Computer Science
M.S., Purdue University; Computer Science
B.S., Mumbai University; Computer Engineering

Insights
Thought Leadership: Digital Privacy and Emerging Technologies
Friday, August 18, 2023
Related News
Professor Vaidya recognized as international expert in health sciences informatics
Friday, May 31, 2024
Fintech Conference Focuses on the Next Generation of Industry Leaders
Thursday, October 12, 2023
Professor Vaidya elected to serve as fellow with multinational organization for information technologies field 
Monday, October 09, 2023
Research with potential to expedite data-sharing among medical researchers wins support of NIH 
Monday, October 02, 2023
A professor's quest to protect data and make it more equitable
Thursday, August 31, 2023
MORE
Media Mentions
NJBIZ, Will computing advances mean the end of digital privacy?, Jaideep Vaidya
Monday, February 13, 2023
USA Today, As more schools shift to online learning, what should they do about cyberattacks? Jaideep Vaidya
Tuesday, September 15, 2020
IEEE Computer Society, Privately Identify and Help Track the Spread of COVID-19 with COVID Nearby, Jaideep Vaidya
Tuesday, August 04, 2020
NJBIZ. Hackers at the gate: How small businesses can safeguard against cyber-intruders, Jaideep Vaidya
Wednesday, May 08, 2019
Nature, Making digital government a better government, Jaideep Vaidya
Wednesday, November 28, 2018
Dissertations Supervised

Name: Elahraf, Abeer
Graduation Date: 2021/October

Name: Batra, Gunjan
Graduation Date: 2021/October

Name: Asif, Hafiz
Graduation Date: 2021/January

Name: Badar, Nazia
Graduation Date: 2016/October
Thesis Title: Configuration Management in Access Control Systems
(Co-Advisor with Vijay Atluri)

Name: Lorenzi, David
Graduation Date: 2016/October
Thesis Title: Enhancing Security and Usability from a Human Perspective on the World Wide Web

Name: Uzun, Emre
Graduation Date: 2015/October
Thesis Title: Formal Security Analysis of Access Control Models and Their Spatiotemporal Extensions
(Co-directed with Vijay Atluri)

Name: Hong, Yuan
Graduation Date: 2013/October
Thesis Title: Privacy-preserving Collaborative Optimization
Placement: Assistant Professor at University at Albany - SUNY.

Name: He, Xiaoyun
Graduation Date: 2011/October
Thesis Title: Privacy Preserving Analysis of Graph ...

SHOW MORE

Rutgers Business School—Newark

1 Washington Park | Newark, NJ 07102

 

Rutgers Business School—New Brunswick

100 Rockafeller Road | Piscataway, NJ 08854

Copyright © 2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey 
Privacy Policy Sitemap Contact Webmaster
RBS Facebook RBS Instagram RBS LinkedIn RBS Twitter RBS YouTube
Rutgers University Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form.
Share this selection
Tweet

