Professor: Jaime Fernández Fisac
University: Princeton University
URL: https://ece.princeton.edu/people/jaime-fernandez-fisac
Description: Electrical and Computer Engineering
Off screen link: Skip to content
Off screen link: Skip to search
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Main Menu
About
AboutSubmenu
People
, (current section)
PeopleSubmenu
Academics
AcademicsSubmenu
Research
ResearchSubmenu
News
Events
Log in
Search
Search
Home
 People
 Jaime Fernández Fisac
Section Menu
Faculty
Administrative Staff
Graduate Students
Research Staff
Visitors
Jaime Fernández Fisac
POSITION
Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
OFFICE PHONE
609-258-2017
(Link opens phone app)
EMAIL
jfisac@princeton.edu
ASSISTANT
Cassandra Mendoza
OFFICE
F315 Engineering Quadrangle
WEBSITE
https://saferobotics.princeton.edu
(Link is external)
ADVISEE(S):
Madison Bland
Haimin Hu
Kaiqu Liang, COS
Duy Phuong Nguyen
Justin Wang
Zixu Zhang
BIO/DESCRIPTION

Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

I am interested in ensuring the safe operation of robotic systems in the human space.

My work combines safety analysis from control theory with machine learning and artificial intelligence techniques to enable robotic systems to reason competently about their own safety in spite of using inevitably fallible models of the world and other agents. We do this by having robots monitor their own ability to understand the world around them, accounting for how the gap between their models and reality affects their ability to guarantee safety.

Much of my research uses dynamic game theory together with insights from cognitive science to enable robots to strategically plan their interaction with human beings in contexts ranging from human-robot teamwork to drone navigation and autonomous driving. My lab’s scope spans theoretical work, algorithm design, and implementation on a variety of robotic platforms.

Prior to joining the Princeton faculty in Fall 2020, I spent a year as a Research Scientist at Waymo (formerly known as Google's Self-Driving Car project), working on autonomous vehicle safety and interaction.

If you are interested in joining my lab as a student, please consider applying to Princeton!

SELECTED PUBLICATIONS
J. F. Fisac*, A. K. Akametalu*, M. N. Zeilinger, S. Kaynama, J. H. Gillula, and C. J. Tomlin. “A general safety framework for learning-based control in uncertain robotic systems
(Link downloads document)
,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 2019
J. F. Fisac*, N. Lugovoy*, V. Rubies Royo, S. Ghosh, C. J. Tomlin. “Bridging Hamilton-Jacobi Safety Analysis and Reinforcement Learning
(Link downloads document)
,” International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2019
J. F. Fisac*, E. Bronstein*, E. Stefansson, D. Sadigh, S. S. Sastry, and A. D. Dragan. “Hierarchical Game- Theoretic Planning for Autonomous Vehicles
(Link is external)
,” International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2019
J. F. Fisac*, A. Bajcsy*, S. L. Herbert, D. Fridovich-Keil, S. Wang, C. J. Tomlin, and A. D. Dragan. “Probabilistically Safe Robot Planning with Confidence-Based Human Predictions
(Link is external)
,” Robotics: Science and Systems (RSS), 2018
J. F. Fisac, M. Chen, C. J. Tomlin, and S. S. Sastry. “Reach-avoid problems with time-varying dynamics, targets and constraints
(Link is external)
”. International Conference on Hybrid Systems Computation and Control (HSCC), 2015

Google Scholar Profile
(Link is external) (Link opens in new window)

Honors and Awards

Google Research Scholar Award, 2022
Best Paper
(Link is external)
 Award in Technical Advances, ACM/IEEE Conference on Human-Robot Interactions (HRI), 2020
UC Berkeley Leon O. Chua Award
(Link is external)
 to Outstanding Achievement in Nonlinear Science, 2019
RELATED NEWS
Schmidt funding awarded to enhance robot safety through photonic computing
Drone-assisted lasers pinpoint harmful gas leaks, attracting NSF funding
'Last 50 feet' could be rich terrain for Princeton-developed robots
Robot trucks drive students to solve real problems in modern robotics
Fernández Fisac has won a Google research award to develop safer, more nuanced robotics
RESEARCH AREAS
Data & Information Science
Robotics & Cyberphysical Systems
FOOTER

(Link is external) (Link opens in new window)

Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Engineering Quadrangle
41 Olden Street
Princeton, New Jersey 08544

FOOTER MENU
Accessibility Help
(Link is external)

© 2024 The Trustees of Princeton University

