Professor: Jaime Arguello
University: University of North Carolina
URL: https://sils.unc.edu/people/faculty/profiles/Jaime-Arguello
Description: This website uses cookies and similar technologies to understand visitor experiences. By using this website, you consent to UNC-Chapel Hill's cookie usage in accordance with their Privacy Notice.
I Accept
skip to the end of the global utility bar
THE UNIVERSITY of NORTH CAROLINA at CHAPEL HILL
Accessibility
Events
Libraries
Maps
Departments
ConnectCarolina
UNC Search
Skip to main content
PEOPLE
NEWS
EVENTS
CONTACT
Home
About 
Academics and Admissions 
Research 
Community Outreach
Giving 
Info For 
 
Jaime Arguello
Professor, UNC School of Information and Library Science
Home / People / Jaime Arguello
Pronouns
He/Him/His
Phone
(919) 962-2926
Email
jarguell@email.unc.edu
Office

Manning Hall - 10

PERSONAL WEBSITE
Expertise

Information retrieval, aggregated search systems and evaluation, search behavior, text data mining, machine learning, task-based search, search assistance.

Education

BS (Electrical Engineering), Washington University
MS (Language Technologies and Information Systems Management), Carnegie Mellon University
PhD (Language Technologies), Carnegie Mellon University

Biography

Dr. Jaime Arguello, Professor at the UNC School of Information and Library Science (SILS), teaches courses and conducts research in the areas of information retrieval, data mining, and machine learning. His main area of research is aggregated search, where the goal is to develop search systems that integrate results from multiple independent sources. He develops algorithms and evaluation methodologies for deciding which sources to select and how to display them. His most recent research studies how users interact with aggregated search displays and how differences in display affect users’ expectations and behaviors. He received a 2015 NSF CAREER Award for a five-year project titled “Making Aggregated Search Results More Effective and Useful.”

Dr. Arguello’s second main area of research focuses on search assistance, where the goal is to develop interactions to help search engine users working on complex tasks. This research aims to understand when and how people employ search assistance. The ultimate goal is to develop systems that automatically provide assistance at the right times and in the appropriate ways. In 2017, Dr. Arguello and SILS Associate Professor Robert Capra received an NSF grant worth nearly $500,000 to develop and evaluate systems that will automatically display relevant search trails as a form of search assistance to users.

Dr. Arguello holds a PhD in Computer Science from Carnegie Mellon University, and publishes regularly at information retrieval venues such as SIGIR, ECIR, CIKM, and IIIX.

Courses
Awards
Publications
Media

School of Information and Library Science
216 Lenoir Drive CB #3360
100 Manning Hall, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3360
(919) 962-8366
info@ils.unc.edu

Connect with Us
   
Directions and Parking
SILS Library
Employment
Human Resources
IT Resources
Communications
Accessibility

© 2024 School of Information and Library Science

