Professor: James C. Lester
University: North Carolina State University
URL: https://www.csc.ncsu.edu/people/lester
Description: NC State Home
RESOURCES
Computer Science
About
Academics
Research
People
News
Contact
Dr. James Lester, Goodnight Distinguished University Professor in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning & Director of the Center for Educational Informatics

1641 Research IV

Phone: 919-515-7534

Fax: 919-513-7896

lester@ncsu.edu
Web Site    
Biography

James C. Lester is the Goodnight Distinguished University Professor in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning at North Carolina State University. He is the Director of the Center for Educational Informatics and the Director of the National Science Foundation AI Institute for Engaged Learning. His research centers on transforming education with artificial intelligence. His current work ranges from AI-driven narrative-centered learning environments and virtual agents for learning to multimodal learning analytics and sketch-based learning environments. He is the recipient of a National Science Foundation CAREER Award, four Best Paper Awards, and the International Federation for Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems Influential Paper Award. At North Carolina State University, he has been recognized with the Alumni Association Outstanding Research Award, the Outstanding Teacher Award, and the Alexander Quarles Holladay Medal for Excellence. His research is supported by the National Science Foundation, the US Department of Education’s Institute of Education Sciences, the National Institutes of Health, and the Army Futures Command. He has served as Editor-in-Chief of the International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education. He is a Fellow of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI).

Research Areas
Advanced Learning Technologies
Artificial Intelligence and Intelligent Agents
Computer and Video Games
Graphics, Human Computer Interaction, & User Experience
Education

Ph.D., Computer Science, University of Texas at Austin, 1994.
M.S.C.S., Computer Science, University of Texas at Austin, 1988.
B.A. (Phi Beta Kappa, with Highest Honors), Computer Science, University of Texas at Austin, 1986.
B.A. (Honors Program, with Distinction) History, Baylor University, 1983.

Awards

Alexander Quarles Holladay Medal for Excellence, North Carolina State University - 2022
Research Leadership Academy, North Carolina State University - 2022
Alumni Association Outstanding Research Award, North Carolina State University - 2022
IFAAMAS Influential Paper Award, International Foundation for Autonomous Agents and Multi-Agent Systems - 2017
Best Paper Award, Twenty-Third Conference on User Modeling, Adaptation, and Personalization - 2015
AAAI Fellow, Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence - 2014
Best Paper Award, Seventh AAAI International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Interactive Digital Entertainment - 2011
Best Paper Award, ACM International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces - 1999
Outstanding Teacher Award, North Carolina State University - 1998
Academy of Outstanding Teachers, North Carolina State University - 1998
Best Paper Award, Eighth World Conference on Artificial Intelligence in Education - 1997
NSF CAREER Award, National Science Foundation - 1997

Department of Computer Science
College of Engineering
Campus Box 8206
890 Oval Drive
Engineering Building II
Raleigh, NC 27695


Contact Us
Employment
Events
Gallery
Facebook
 
Twitter
 
Instagram


YouTube
 
Linked In
 
Flickr
Campus Map
© 2024 NC State University. All rights reserved.
About this site

