Professor: Jason L. Pacheco
University: University of Arizona
URL: https://www2.cs.arizona.edu/~pachecoj
Description: Home
Publications
Courses
Code


Office: Gould-Simpson, Rm. 724

Mailing Address
University of Arizona
Department of Computer Science
1040 E 4th St.
Tucson, AZ 85721


Jason L. Pacheco
Statistical Machine Learning and Stochastic Systems

About me. I am an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Arizona in sunny Tucson Arizona. Before joining UA I completed my PhD in Computer Science at Brown University with Erik Sudderth. I also held a postdoc position at MIT CSAIL with John Fisher III.

Research.My research in statistical machine learning aims to build intelligent systems for automated reasoning in stochastic systems. To achieve this requires the development of algorithms that yield efficient inferences, while remaining flexible enough to adapt to complex domains. My research interests span a variety of application domains including computer vision, signal processing, computational biology, and computational neuroscience. For more details see my CV.

For more information about machine learning at UA see our website.

Recent News

Our paper Efficient Variational Sequential Information Control was accepted to AISTATS 2024
Our paper On Convergence of Polynomial Approximations to the Gaussian Mixture Entropy was accepted to NeurIPS 2023
Our paper Fast Variational Estimation of Mutual Information for Implicit and Explicit Likelihood Models was accepted to AISTATS 2023
Recieved the Air Force Office of Scientific Research (AFOSR) Young Investigator Program (YIP) award for Robust Maximum Entropy Planning, Learning, and Control in Uncertain Environments

Interested in working with me?

I am happy to collaborate with motivated students! If you would like to join my group, see the following items before emailing me:

Take my classes CSC 535 : Intro. to Probabilistic Graphical Models or CSC 665 : Advanced Topics in Probabilistic Graphical Models.
If you wish to work with me as a PhD student read more here.
Checkout some of my recent publications for project ideas.

© Jason Pacheco, 2019

