Professor: Jason I. Hong
University: Carnegie Mellon University
URL: http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~jasonh
Description: Jason I. Hong 洪宜安
Professor
School of Computer Science
Human Computer Interaction Institute
Carnegie Mellon University

Office:	3523 Newell Simon Hall
Email:	jasonh cs cmu edu (see FAQ if applying to CMU)
Phone:	412-268-1251 (I rarely check voice mail, send email)
Blogs:	Confabulations | BLOGS@CACM
Social:	FaceBook | LinkedIn | SlideShare | Pervasive Computing subreddit | Twitter
Admin:	Reenie Kirby | 412-268-1215 | reenie cmu edu
Home Publications CV Talks FAQ Bio
See all publications
Recent Papers
 
Designing for Privacy in Mobile Sensing Systems, book chapter in Mobile Sensing in Psychology: Methods and Applications
Understanding Frontline Workers’ and Unhoused Individuals’ Perspectives on AI Used in Homeless Services (CHI 2023) (best paper award)
Participation and Division of Labor in User-Driven Algorithm Audits: How Do Everyday Users Work together to Surface Algorithmic Harms? (CHI 2023)
Zeno: An Interactive Framework for Behavioral Evaluation of Machine Learning (CHI 2023)
Improving Human-AI Collaboration with Descriptions of AI Behavior (CSCW 2023)
The Security and Privacy Acceptance Framework (SPAF): A review of why users accept or reject cybersecurity and privacy best practices (FnT)
"Give Everybody [..] a Little Bit More Equity": Content Creator Perspectives and Responses to the Algorithmic Demonetization of Content Associated with Disadvantaged Groups (CSCW 2022)
Peekaboo: A Hub-Based Approach to Enable Transparency in Data Processing within Smart Homes (Oakland 2022)
Research Overview
 
Note: I am currently working on a new startup and am scaling back all academic and research commitments for the foreseeable future.

My primary field is human-computer interaction. My areas of work are in usable privacy and security, mobile computing, Internet of Things, and AI fairness and bias. I draw on ideas from systems, behavioral sciences, and machine learning. Here is a long description of my research accomplishments, below are some highlights:

Pioneered research on protecting people from phishing scams. Our work on anti-phishing was adopted by industry groups, and inspired the design of anti-phishing browser warnings. Our work was also commercialized as Wombat Security, which was acquired by Proofpoint in 2018.
Deployed Livehoods, which was the first paper to use geotagged social media to understand the dynamics of cities. Won ICWSM test of time award in 2022.
Investigated Social Cybersecurity, which looked at how to adopt ideas from social psychology to positively influence people’s privacy and security behaviors. Won Honorable Mention for NSA Competition for Best Scientific Cybersecurity Paper.
Pioneered new system architectures and developer tools for smartphone privacy, which has had positive impact on consumer privacy and on industry
Deployed PrivacyGrade.org, a web site where we analyzed the privacy of over a million Android apps based on a model of people’s expectations of privacy
Wrote The Design of Sites, one of the earliest books on user interface design patterns
Developed WeAudit, a suite of tools for helping everyday people collectively audit AI systems for bias and fairness
Co-founded the Master’s of Product Management (MSPM), a joint program between HCII and Tepper School of Business
Supervised 21 Postdocs and PhD students, and taught hundreds of undergrads and master’s students in classes, independent studies, and research projects

Our work has been featured in CNN, New York Times, BBC, CBS News, MIT Tech Review, World Economic Forum, and more. Our team has been generously funded by DARPA, National Science Foundation, Army Research Office, Amazon, IBM, Google, Intel, Microsoft, Nokia, NQ Mobile, Pitney Bowes, Portugal Telecom, Samsung, Yahoo, CMU Cylab, Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, Cisco, and more.

What's New?
Feb 27, 2024
I gave a talk entitled An Overview of Privacy for Mobile Sensing Systems for the mDOT NIH Center.

Feb 8, 2024
Along with several of my colleagues at CMU, I was named a 2024 Microsoft Research AI & Society fellow to do work on to do work on “Regulating AI in Light of the Challenges of Doing Responsible AI in Practice”.

Dec 13, 2023
I gave a distinguished lecture at Univ Wisconsin-Madison entitled Helping Developers with Privacy. 

Nov 20, 2023
New book chapter, Designing for Privacy in Mobile Sensing Systems, book chapter in Mobile Sensing in Psychology: Methods and Applications. I tried to summarize everything I know about legal, philosophical, design, and technical issues about privacy in this chapter.

July 25, 2023
My blog post What Can the FATE Community Learn from the Successes and Failures in Privacy? was published in CACM August 2023 issue.

May 27, 2023
I had the honor of being the 2023 commencement speaker at the South Carolina Governor's School for Science and Math, my alma mater. See the text of the speech or video here.

Apr 20, 2023
Our paper What makes people install a COVID-19 contact-tracing app? Understanding the influence of app design and individual difference on contact-tracing app adoption intention won Best Research Paper 2019-2021 in Pervasive and Mobile Computing.

Apr 4, 2023
Our paper Understanding Frontline Workers’ and Unhoused Individuals’ Perspectives on AI Used in Homeless Services won a best paper award at CHI 2023.

Jan 19, 2023
I was named an ACM Fellow!

Jun 7, 2022
Our work on Livehoods won ICWSM Test of Time award! See the press release and livehoods.org web site.

Nov 23, 2021
Our paper on Software-Defined Cooking Using a Microwave Oven is a Research Highlight in the Dec 2021 issue of CACM.

Nov 23, 2021
ClearTerms data set is available here. This is a spreadsheet containing the results of several thousand crowdsourced judgements comparing different statements in Terms and Conditions for about a dozen ecommerce web sites.

Nov 7, 2021
We made EMA data publicly available from our study on social interactions, social support, mood, and well-being during 2020 COVID.

Apr 27, 2021
New paper on arxiv summarizing our work on DARPA Brandeis project for smartphone privacy: The Design of the User Interfaces for Privacy Enhancements for Android

Apr 24, 2021
Use our SA-6 and SA-13 survey instrument to assess people's security attitudes. You can also take the SA-6 quiz online here.

Feb 10, 2021
We just received $1M in new funding from NSF and Amazon to investigate Fairness in AI!

Oct 21, 2020
I did a keynote talk for CHIuXiD entitled Privacy for Mobile Sensing Systems. 

May 1, 2020
Our web site showcasing our work on the user interfaces for DARPA Brandeis smartphone privacy is now up

Feb 14, 2020
I'm now a member of CHI Academy!

Mar 13, 2019
I wrote a blog entry on CACM entitled Why is Privacy So Hard?

Mar 5, 2019
My wife and I helped found two junior faculty chairs in the Human-Computer Interaction Institute at CMU.

Nov 30, 2018
Our team has released the MobiPurpose data set. It contains over 2 million unique intercepted traffic requests from 15k+ smartphone apps, gathered from our array of smartphones.

Mar 1, 2018
Wombat Security, which I co-founded in 2008, was acquired by Proofpoint for $225m!

Sep 1, 2017
I wrote a roadmap for privacy research entitled The Privacy Landscape for Pervasive and Ubiquitous Computing.

May 29, 2017
I was recently honored with Alumni of the Year from my old high school, South Carolina Governor's School for Science and Math. Here is a link to my speech at the commencement.

May 16, 2017
The HCII and the Tepper School of Business are offering a new Master's Degree of Product Management. I'm helping to run the HCII side.

Jun 7, 2016
White paper with New America entitled Toward a Safe and Secure Internet of Things.


Sep 9, 2015
Presented some of our team's work on using smartphones for healthcare at the World Economic Forum at Dalian.

Aug 13, 2015
Our CCS 2014 paper Increasing Security Sensitivity with Social Proof: A Large-Scale Experimental Confirmation won Honorable Mention at NSA's Best Scientific Cybersecurity Paper Competition.

Dec 26, 2014
PrivacyGrade.org presents our privacy analysis of 1 million Android apps. Our work has appeared on CNN, US News and World Report, New York Times, CNBC, IEEE Spectrum, Forbes, and more.

Sep 17, 2014
My brother and I have created the Frances and Chou-Chu Hong graduate fellowship at the Veterinary and Animal Sciences Department at the University of Massachusetts.

Oct 25, 2013
Gave a talk at PopTech 2013 on sensing and privacy. See slides and video here.


Apr 9, 2012
Livehoods.org re-imagines how cities work in the age of social media. Livehoods has been featured in The Atlantic Cities, Wired Insider, MIT Technology Review, Fast Company Co.Design, New York Post, Wall Street Journal, and Haaretz.


Some Past Research
DARPA Brandeis: Privacy Enhancements for Android
How can we improve the privacy of smartphones, in terms of new ways of analyzing app behaviors, developer support, and user interfaces? Here is our web site showcasing our work on smartphone privacy.

New app analysis techniques
"Why Are They Collecting My Data?": Inferring the Purposes of Network Traffic in Mobile Apps (IMWUT 2019)
Understanding the Purpose of Permission Use in Mobile Apps (ACM TOIS)
Identifying and Analyzing the Privacy of Apps for Kids (HotMobile 2016)
Using Text Mining to Infer the Purpose of Permission Use in Mobile Apps (Ubicomp 2015)
Helping developers with privacy
Keynote talk at VL/HCC 2018: Helping Developers with Privacy
Coconut: An IDE Plugin for Developing Privacy-Friendly Apps (IMWUT 2019)
PrivacyStreams: Enabling Transparency in Personal Data Processing for Mobile Apps (IMWUT 2018)
The Privacy and Security Behaviors of Smartphone App Developers (USEC 2014)
New user interfaces for privacy
Does this App Really Need My Location? Context aware Privacy Management on Android (IMWUT 2018)
New enforcement mechanisms
PrivacyProxy.io Android app
PrivacyGrade.org
PrivacyGrade.org, our privacy analysis of one million Android apps
Talk at FTC July 2015 about PrivacyGrade
Modeling Users’ Mobile App Privacy Preferences: Restoring Usability in a Sea of Permission Settings (SOUPS 2014)
Expectation and Purpose: Understanding Users’ Mental Models of Mobile App Privacy through Crowdsourcing (Ubicomp 2012)


Social Cybersecurity
How can we apply techniques from social psychology to change people's cybersecurity behaviors?
Use our SA-6 and SA-13 survey instrument to assess people's security attitudes. You can also take the SA-6 quiz online here.
“It’s our mutual responsibility to share” – The evolution of account sharing in romantic couples (CSCW 2021)
Share and Share Alike? An Exploration of Secure Behaviors in Romantic Relationships (SOUPS 2018)
Talk at HCIC 2015 about Social Cybersecurity and Theory
The Role of Social Influence In Security Feature Adoption (CSCW 2015)
Increasing Security Sensitivity With Social Proof: A Large-Scale Experimental Confirmation (CCS 2014). This paper won Honorable Mention at NSA's Best Scientific Cybersecurity Paper Competition.
The Effect of Social Influence on Security Sensitivity (SOUPS 2014)


Personal Behavioral Data
How can we make better use of all of the wealth of personal behavioral data (smartphones, web usage, social networking) to develop a better computational model of people, places, activities, and things?
Evolving the Ecosystem of Personal Behavioral Data
Challenges and Opportunities in Data Mining Contact Lists for Inferring Relationships, Ubicomp 2014
Mining Smartphone Data to Classify Life-Facets of Social Relationships, CSCW 2013
Are you close with me? Are you nearby? Investigating social groups, closeness, and willingness to share, Ubicomp 2011


UniAuth: Streamlining Authentication for Ubiquitous Computing
What kinds of protocols, APIs, and user interfaces are needed for our smartphones to manage all of our authentication needs, both for the web and Internet of Things? See our set of papers on authentication for ubicomp here.


Urban Analytics
How can we use location data from smartphones and social media to understand cities? See our papers on urban analytics here.


User-Controllable Security & Privacy for Pervasive Computing
How can we combine machine learning, dialog, and better user interfaces to empower people to manage their privacy? See our papers on ubicomp privacy here.


Anti-Phishing
Why do people fall for phishing scams? Can we train people not to fall for scams? Can we also develop techniques to detect phishing emails? See our large set of papers on anti-phishing here.


Rapid Prototyping and UX Design Tools
How can we help people design interactive systems faster and better? My past work in this area include sketching interfaces, design patterns, and tools for rapid prototyping. See our set of papers on design tools here.


The CHIMPS Research Team
 
Some alums of the CHIMPS group (postdocs, PhD, and some MS), in somewhat chronological order:
Karen Tang
Jeff Wong, now at Apple
Bryan Pendleton, now at a startup (previously GOogle)
Janne Lindqvist, now an Assoc Prof at Aalto (previously Rutgers)
Polo Chau (with Christos Faloutsos and Niki Kittur), now an assoc prof at Georgia Tech
Guang Xiang (with Carolyn Rose), now doing an AI startup in China
Jialiu Lin (with Norman Sadeh), now at Waymo (previously was a privacy engineer at Google)
Shah Amini, now at Facebook (previously Appthority and Google)
Jun Ki Min, now at Motorola
Mike Villena, now at Appthority
Afsaneh Doryab, now an Asst Prof at UVa (previously CMU)
Alex Sciuto, now at Maven Machines
Song Luan, now at YouTube (previously Uber)
Jason Wiese (with John Zimmerman), now an Assoc Prof at University of Utah
Eiji Hayashi, now at Facebook
Sauvik Das, now an Asst Prof at CMU
Dan Tasse, now a data scientist at StitchFix
Siyan Zhao, now a UX designer at Google
Mike Czapik, now at TikTok
Hong Shen, now an asst research prof at CMU
Cori Faklaris (with Laura Dabbish), now an asst prof at UNC-Charlotte
Haojian Jin, now an asst prof at UCSD
George Hope Chidziwisano, now an Asst Prof at UTenn
Tianshi Li, now an asst prof at Northeastern University
Alex Cabrera (with Adam Perer), now at an AI startup
Isadora Krsek, now a PhD student at CMU HCII
Some of My Writings and Other Stuff I Helped Create
Running Program Committees
Notes on running Program Committees (from running Mobisys 2015)
My Cybersecurity Advice (for general audiences)
Staying Safe Online for Kids, for South Carolina iTeams
Leveraging Human Factors for Effective Cybersecurity Training, for ISSA 2013 CISO Forum
Designing the User Experience for Online Privacy, for IAPP 2013
Teaching Johnny Not to Fall for Phish, for ISSA 2011
This List of Security Tips Goes to Eleven
Anti-Phishing Phil game, for teaching people not to fall for phishing scams
Research Tools, Software, and Web Sites
Lean Privacy Review is a tool to help with privacy, sort of like heuristic evaluation + crowdsourcing for privacy.
Coconut is a plugin for IntelliJ and Android Studio to help developers with privacy.
Use our SA-6 and SA-13 survey instrument to assess people's security attitudes. You can also take the SA-6 quiz online here.
Ubicomp Design Patterns, DIS 2004 paper, talk, and map of the patterns
PrivacyStreams (GitHub), a programming model for Android that makes it easier for developers to access sensitive data while also improving privacy. See IMWUT paper here.
PrivacyProxy, a VPN for Android that identifies likely unique identifiers in your network traffic
PrivacyGrade.org, a web site for grading the privacy of 1M+ Android apps
Livehoods, a web site for urban analytics, showing clusters of related venues
APWG Landing Page, for replacing fake phishing web sites
Research Data Sets
Twitter data set of user-driven audits, see our paper Participation and Division of Labor in User-Driven Algorithm Audits: How Do Everyday Users Work together to Surface Algorithmic Harms?
PrivacyGrade data set (warning: 800M zip file), our privacy analysis of one million Android apps
ClearTerms data set is available here. This is a spreadsheet containing the results of several thousand crowdsourced judgements comparing different statements in Terms and Conditions for about a dozen ecommerce web sites.
EMA data publicly available from our study on social interactions, social support, mood, and well-being during 2020 COVID.
MobiPurpose data set, containing over 2 million unique intercepted traffic requests from 15k+ smartphone apps, gathered from our array of smartphones
Instructor Guides and Reading Seminars
Teaching Usable Privacy and Security, with Lorrie Cranor and Mike Reiter
Introduction to User Experience and User Interface Design: A One Hour Crash Course
Reading list for HCI and Privacy Reading Seminar, Spring 2012 (public Google Doc)
Reading list for Ubiquitous Personal Smart Agents, Fall 2015 (public Google Doc)
Advice for PhD students and Grad School Applicants
Grad School Advice Page (popular)
PhDs from the Faculty's Perspective (BLOG@CACM)
Odds and Ends
My speech at the 2017 commencement of my old high school, the South Carolina Governor's School for Science and Math
Why is Privacy So Hard? (Blog@CACM)
Yet Another Major Data Breach, But Will This Time Be Any Different? (BLOG@CACM)
Human Subjects Research for the Twenty-First Century, or, What Can We Learn from the Facebook Mood Study? (BLOG@CACM)
Privacy and Google Glass (BLOG@CACM)
No, your users aren't morons (wombatsecurity.com)
Most Smartphone Apps are Spyware (BLOG@CACM)
Password Policies are Getting Out of Control (BLOG@CACM)
Why is Great Design so Hard? Part 1, Part 2, and Part 3 (BLOG@CACM)
How Little Web Sites Have Changed Over the Past 6 Years
Web 2.0 and Research
Watch Ed Chi get Kicked in the name of science (Yes, I actually like Ed :)
Famous Rejected Papers
The Design of Sites

I co-authored a book on web site design, which uses the notion of web design patterns as a way for facilitating the design of customer-centered web sites. Check out the web site for our book The Design of Sites. Our book has been translated into Polish, Chinese, Korean (and possibly other languages as well).

Service
Current Service
University Faculty Review Committee
Editorial Board for Communications of the ACM (web site subgroup)
Program head (HCII half) for CMU's Master's of Product Management
I occasionally write for BLOG@CACM
Some Past Service
Program Chair or Co-Chair SOUPS 2008, SOUPS 2007, HotMobile 2009, Mobisys 2015
Editorial Board for ACM Transactions on Human-Computer Interaction, Foundations and Trends in HCI, and IEEE Pervasive Computing
Guest Editor, IEEE Pervasive Computing, Special Issues on Accessibility, Security & Privacy, Connected Youth, and Wearable Computing, and Privacy and Security
Program Committees for IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (Oakland Security), HotMobile, Ubicomp, Mobisys, SOUPS, UIST, CHI, and more
Subcommittee co-chair for Privacy, Security, and Visualization for CHI2018



