Professor: Jenna Wiens
University: University of Michigan
URL: http://www-personal.umich.edu/~wiensj
Description: Jenna Wiens

MLD3: Machine Learning for Data-Driven Decisions

BIOGRAPHY
RESEARCH
TEACHING
CONTACT

About Me

I am an Associate Professor of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. I currently head the MLD3: Machine Learning for Data-Driven Decisions research group. My primary research interests lie at the intersection of machine learning and healthcare. I am particularly interested in time-series analysis, transfer/multitask learning, and causal inference. The overarching goal of my research agenda is to develop the computational methods needed to help organize, process, and transform data into actionable knowledge. To find out more about my research interests and what the group is currently working on, please follow the "Research" link above.

I received my PhD in 2014 from MIT. At MIT, I worked with Prof. John Guttag in the Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Lab (CSAIL). My PhD research focused on developing accurate patient risk-stratification approaches that leverage spatiotemporal patient data, with the ultimate goal of discovering information that can be used to reduce the incidence of healthcare-associated infections. In 2015, I was named Forbes 30 under 30 in Science and Healthcare; I received an NSF CAREER Award in 2016; in 2017 I was named to the MIT Tech Review's list of 35 Innovators Under 35; and most recently I received a Sloan Fellowship in Computer Science.

Updates/News
February 2020: Honored to be selected for a 2020 Sloan Research Fellowship in Computer Science
September 2019: Received an NIH R01 to leverage clinical time series for learning optimal treatment of acute dyspnea.
September 2019: Excited to be taking on the role of co-director of the Precision Health initiative at UM.
August 2019: UM is hosting the Machine Learning for Healthcare Conference (MLHC) 2019. The first MLHC Community Data Challenge Kickstart will precede the main conference on August 8th. Check out mlforhc.org for more details.
July 2019: As part of the Big Data Summer Institute at UM, I am lecturing and mentoring a talented group of undergraduate students.
June 2019: Honored to deliver the keynote address at the AI4Good Summer Lab Research Symposium.
January 2019: Traveling to Auckland, New Zealand to give a keynote as part of Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare .
August 2018: I will be giving a keynote talk at the KDD workshop on Mining and Learning from Time Series .
August 2018: MLHC 2018 is taking place at Stanford. We will be live streaming talks See conference website for details.
December 2017: I am honored to have been awarded the Morris Wellman Faculty Development Professorship.
September 2017: Named to MIT Tech Review's list of innovators for research in building data-driven models for predicting healthcare-associated infections.
May 2017: Check out MiCHAMP the Michigan Integrated Center for Health Analytics and Medical Prediction.
March 2016: Don't let the bad bugs win: U-M team seeks to outsmart C. difficile with new $9.2 mllion effort.
January 2016: I received a National Science Foundation CAREER Award Adaptable, Intelligible, and Actionable Models: Increasing the Utility of Machine Learning in Clinical Care .
*I am looking for a Postdoc please contact me with your CV*

© Jenna Wiens 2018.

