Professor: Jia Liu 0002
University: Ohio State University
URL: https://kevinliu-osu-ece.github.io/
Description: Jia (Kevin) Liu,

Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, The Ohio State University

Home
Research
Publications
Awards
Grants
Activities
Teaching
My Group

Contact Information

620 Dreese Laboratories, 2015 Neil Ave, Columbus, OH 43210 U.S.A.

Email: liu@ece.osu.edu, Phone: 614-247-4588, Fax: 614-292-7596

Short Biography

Jia (Kevin) Liu is an Associate Professor in the Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering at The Ohio State University (OSU) and an Amazon Visiting Academic (AVA) with Amazon.com. From Aug. 2017 to Aug. 2020, he was an Assistant Professor in the Dept. of Computer Science at Iowa State University (ISU). He currently serves as the Managing Director of the NSF AI Institute for Future Edge Networks and Distributed Intelligence (AI-EDGE) at OSU. He is a Co-Principal Investigator of the NSF TRIPODS D4 (Dependable Data-Driven Discovery) Institute at ISU. He is also a faculty investigator affiliated with the NSF ARA Wireless Living Lab PAWR Platform between ISU and OSU, and the Institute of Cybersecurity and Digital Trust (ICDT) at OSU. He received his Ph.D. degree from the Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Virginia Tech in 2010. His research areas include theoretical machine learning, stochastic network optimization and control, and performance analysis for data analytics infrastructure and cyber-physical systems. Dr. Liu is a senior member of IEEE and a member of ACM. He has received numerous awards at top venues, including IEEE INFOCOM'19 Best Paper Award, IEEE INFOCOM'16 Best Paper Award, IEEE INFOCOM'13 Best Paper Runner-up Award, IEEE INFOCOM'11 Best Paper Runner-up Award, and IEEE ICC'08 Best Paper Award. He has also received multiple honors of long/spotlight presentations at top machine learning conferences, including ICML, NeurIPS, and ICLR. He is an NSF CAREER Award recipient in 2020 and a winner of the Google Faculty Research Award in 2020. He received the LAS Award for Early Achievement in Research at Iowa State University in 2020, and the Bell Labs President Gold Award. Dr. Liu is an Associate Editor for IEEE Transactions on Cognitive Communications and Networking. He has served as a TPC member for numerous top conferences, including ICML, NeurIPS, ICLR, ACM SIGMETRICS, IEEE INFOCOM, and ACM MobiHoc. His research is supported by NSF, AFOSR, AFRL, ONR, Google, and Cisco. [Full CV]



Immediate Openings for Ph.D. Students & PostDocs:

Openings for Ph.D. students and PostDoc are available and expected to be filled as early as Spring 2024 or in Fall 2024. Detailed descriptions of the opennings can be found here. Please also see the "Research" section on this web to learn about my research areas and interests. If you are interested, please send me your CV/Resume, transcripts, publications (if available) and GRE/TOEFL scores (if available) for consideration. I apologize for not being able to respond to every inquiry, but that doesn't mean I'm not considering. :-) Please also refer to the OSU ECE Graduate Admissions Site for detailed application instructions.

News:
Our proposal on real-time crowd-sourced geospatial digital twin has been funded by the Cyber-Physical Systems program of the National Science Foundation! This $1.2 million collaborative project involves esteemed colleagues: Prof. Bin Li at Penn State University, Prof. Randall Berry at Northwestern University, and my ECE colleague Prof. Rongjun Qin at The Ohio State University. I'm honored to serve as the Lead PI on this exciting venture!
A paper on finite-time sample complexity of actor-critic multi-objective reinforcement learning is accepted by ICML 2024 (acceptance rate: 27.5%).
A paper on understanding server-assisted federated learning under partial client participation is accepted by ICML 2024 (acceptance rate: 27.5%).
A paper on Byzantine-resilient decentralized federated learning has been accepted by ACM CCS 2024 (a "Security Big Four," acceptance rate: 19%).
A paper on queue-based continual prompt tuning method called Q-Tuning for language models in collaboration with Amazon is accepted by NAACL 2024.
A paper on achieving O(1/T)-convergent policy evaluation for reinforcement learning with nonlinear function approximation is accepted by ICLR 2024 for a spotlight presentation (acceptance rate: 31%, spotlight rate: 5%). Big congrats to my students Zhuqing Liu, Xin Zhang, and collaborator Songtao Lu at IBM!
A paper on multi-agent reinforcement learning policy evaluation with local TD-learning updates is accepted by ACM AAMAS 2024 (acceptance rate: 25%).
A joint paper on federated multi-objective learning (in collaboration with Amazon) has been accepted by NeurIPS 2023 (acceptance rate: 26.1%).
My Ph.D. student Zhuqing Liu recieved the Dr. Burn Lin Travel Grant Award award sponsored by OSU ECE endowment. Big Congratulations!
My Ph.D. student Peiwen Qiu recieved the IEEE INFOCOM 2023 Student Conference Grant award sponsored by NSF. Big Congratulations!
A paper on low sample-communication complexity decentralized constrained min-max learning is accepted by ACM MobiHoc 2023 (acceptance rate: 21.9%).
A paper on variance-reduced approach for stochastic decentralized constrained bilevel optimization is accepted by ICML 2023 (acceptance rate: 27.9%).
A paper on solving linear constrained bilevel optimization with a smoothed implicit gradient approach is accepted by ICML 2023 (acceptance rate: 27.9%).
I am co-chairing the 4th Workshop on Machine Learning in Wireless Communications at WiOpt 2023, which will be held in Singapore Aug. 23-27, 2023. The submission deadline is May 8, 2023. Please visit the workshop web here for more information. Your submission to this workshop is highly appreciated!
My Ph.D. student Peiwen Qiu recieved the IEEE INFOCOM 2023 Student Travel Grant award sponsored by IEEE ComSoc. Big Congratulations!
My Ph.D. student Haibo Yang has accepted a faculty position offer from Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) and will officially start as a tenure-track Assistant Professor in the Golisano College of Computing and Information Sciences at RIT in August 2023! Big Congrats to Haibo! RIT is ranked 62 on csrankings.org, tied with Notre Dame. Haibo is one of my first batch of Ph.D. students, who started at Iowa State University in 2018 and then moved to The Ohio State University with me in 2020. As his Ph.D. advisor in the last five years, I have witnessed Haibo's entire growing process from a junior Ph.D. student, to a blossoming outstanding researcher, and now to a professor-soon-to-be. So proud! #OhioState #IowaState #RochesterIT
I am invited to serve as an Associate Editor of IEEE Transactions on Cognitive Communications and Networking (TCCN).
A paper on STORM-type momentum-based stochastic decentralized bilevel optimization is accepted by IEEE INFOCOM 2023 (acceptance rate: 19.2%).
A paper on the PAC non-learnability of federated learning under partial client participation and the mitigation by using server-aided federated learning is accepted by NeurIPS Workshop on Recent Advances and New Challenges in Federated Learning (FL-NeurIPS'22).
My Ph.D. student Haibo Yang received the NeurIPS 2022 Scholar Award, with full travel support to attend NeurIPS 2022 in New Orleans. Congratulations!
+ Click for the Next 10 News Items ...
 
Copyright © 2004-2024 Jia (Kevin) Liu. All rights reserved.
Updated: 06/26/2024. Design adapted from TEMPLATED.	

