Professor: Jianlin Cheng
University: University of Missouri
URL: https://engineering.missouri.edu/faculty/jianlin-cheng
Description: Skip to navigation
Skip to content

MU Logo

University of Missouri
Faculty Directory
Staff Directory
Calendar & Events
News
Give
Search
search
Mizzou Engineering
Academicsarrow_drop_down
Admissionsarrow_drop_down
Departmentsarrow_drop_down
Researcharrow_drop_down
Student Servicesarrow_drop_down
Aboutarrow_drop_down
Apply Now
JIANLIN CHENG - MIZZOU ENGINEERING
Jianlin Cheng
Curators' Distinguished Professor, William and Nancy Thompson Distinguished Professor

109 Naka Hall

Phone: 573-882-7306

Email: chengji@missouri.edu

Electrical Engineering and Computer Science

Biography

Jianlin (Jack) Cheng is the William and Nancy Thompson Distinguished Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Missouri. He received his PhD in information and computer science from the University of California, Irvine in 2006. His research is focused on developing machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI) methods and tools for big biomedical data analysis. His research group has developed numerous bioinformatics tools for analyzing protein structure and function, biological networks, and 3D genome structure, which are used by scientists around the world. His research has been supported by the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the National Science Foundation (NSF), and the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE). Cheng was a recipient of the NSF CAREER award and the MU College of Engineering’s junior and senior faculty research awards.

Education

PhD from the University of California, Irvine
MS from Utah State University
BS from Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Website

calla.rnet.missouri.edu/cheng

Technical Focus

Artificial intelligence
Bioinformatics
Machine learning

Chemical and Biomedical Engineering
Civil and Environmental Engineering
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Engineering and Information Technology
Industrial and Systems Engineering
Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering

MU Logo

University of Missouri
Contact us

College of Engineering

engineering@missouri.edu

W1024 Lafferre Hall

Columbia, MO 65211

Phone: (573) 882-4375

MU is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, visit MU’s Nondiscrimination Policy or the Office of Institutional Equity.

© 2024 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy

