Professor: Jin Sun 0007
University: University of Georgia
URL: https://jinsungit.github.io/
Description: about
(current)
publications
projects
teaching
Jin Sun

804 Boyd Research Center
School of Computing | University of Georgia
Athens, Georgia, United States
 jinsun AT uga.edu

I’m an Assistant Professor in the School of Computing and a faculty fellow at the Institute for Artificial Intelligence at the University of Georgia. I’m also a Lilly Teaching Fellow.

Previously, I was a Postdoctoral Associate at Cornell Tech, working with Prof. Noah Snavely. I received my PhD degree in Computer Science from the University of Maryland. My PhD advisor is Prof. David Jacobs. I was in a 3+2 program where I received a Master’s degree in Computer and Information Science from Temple University and my Bachelor’s degree in Automation from the University of Science and Technology of China (USTC). My advisor in Temple was Prof. Haibin Ling.

My research area is computer vision–understanding our world using visual data with the help of state-of-the-art deep learning models. In particular, I’m passionate about understanding people in diverse and complex environment using images and videos. I believe A.I. can and should be developed to improve people’s quality of life.

Recent research highlights
Neural Gaffer: Relighting Any Object via Diffusion
Haian Jin, Yuan Li, Fujun Luan, Yuanbo Xiangli, Sai Bi, Kai Zhang, Zexiang Xu, Jin Sun, and Noah Snavely
arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.07520, Jun 2024
ARXIV CODE
On the opportunities and challenges of foundation models for geospatial artificial intelligence
Gengchen Mai, Weiming Huang, Jin Sun, Suhang Song, Deepak Mishra, Ninghao Liu, Song Gao, Tianming Liu, Gao Cong, Yingjie Hu, and 1 more author
ACM Transactions on Spatial Algorithms and Systems, Mar 2024
ARXIV
Black-box Backdoor Defense via Zero-shot Image Purification
Yucheng Shi, Mengnan Du, Xuansheng Wu, Zihan Guan, Jin Sun, and Ninghao Liu
Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), Oct 2023
ARXIV CODE
What’s in a Decade? Transforming Faces Through Time
Eric Ming Chen, Jin Sun, Apoorv Khandelwal, Dani Lischinski, Noah Snavely, and Hadar Averbuch-Elor
In Eurograhics, May 2023
ARXIV
 
"There is a theory which states that if ever anyone discovers exactly what the Universe is for and why it is here, it will instantly disappear and be replaced by something even more bizarre and inexplicable. There is another theory which states that this has already happened." -- Douglas Adams
© Copyright 2024 Jin Sun. Powered by Jekyll with al-folio theme. Hosted by GitHub Pages. Last updated: June 17, 2024.

