Professor: Jinwei Ye
University: George Mason University
URL: https://ivlab.cse.lsu.edu/
Description: IV Lab
Menu
Home
People
Outreach
Publications
Contact

Welcome to

Imaging and Vision Lab

Imaging and Vision Lab

News
2024.03   Dr. Ye serves as a finance chair for ICCP 2024.
2023.08   Dr. Ye receives the NSF CAREER award. 
2023.08   Dr. Ye co-organizes a tutorial on "Polarization-based Visual Computing" with Seung-Hwan Baek, Achuta Kadambi, George Chen, and Akshat Dave at SGIGGRAPH 2023.
2023.06   Dr. Ye co-organizes a tutorial on "Polarization-based Computer Vision" with Seung-Hwan Baek, Achuta Kadambi, and George Chen at CVPR 2023.
2022.10   Dr. Ye serves as a demo chair for ICCV 2023.
2022.06   Dr. Ye co-organizes an outreach workshop at CVPR 2022 with Noah Snavely, Shuran Song, and Philippos Mordohai. 
2022.01   Dr. Ye joins George Mason University (GMU) in Spring 2022.
2022.01   Simron won the LSU College of Engineering Outstanding Disseration Award! Congratulations to Simron!
2021.09   Simron has successfully defended her Ph.D. thesis and will join 3M Research in Oct. Congratulations to Simron!
2021.07   Dr. Ye receives an NSF IIS Small grant as lead PI (with co-PI: Corina Barbalata). 
2021.06   Dr. Ye serves as a local arrangment chair for CVPR 2022.
2021.05   Nianyi Li will join Clemson University as Tenure-Track Assistant Proferssor in this fall. Congratulations to Nianyi!
2021.01   Our team participates in the NSF Innovation Corps (I-Corps) program.
more

"All truths are easy to understand once they are discovered;
the point is to discover them."

Galileo Galilei

Imaging and Vision Lab

Research Highlight
A new reciprocal theory extends the classical Helmholtz stereopsis by considering the polarization state of light in the reciprocal paths.
A light lield-based PIV solution to track dense particles floating in the fluid and reconstruct the 3D fluid flow.
A deep neural network that estimates the depth and normal maps of a fluid surface by analyzing the refractive distortion of a reference background pattern.
A Concentric multi-spectral light field (CMSLF) design that is able to recover the shape and reflectance of surfaces of various materials in one shot.
A novel computational imaging approach for reconstructing complex mirror surfaces using a dense illumination field with angularly varying polarization states.
A learning-based solution that is capable of producing the bullet-time effect from only a small set of images.
A graph-based non-rigid shape registration framework that can simultaneously recover 3D human body geometry and estimate pose/motion at high fidelity.
A two-layer liquid crystal display (LCD) setup for reconstructing the mirror-type specular objects.
A spectral plenoptic camera design by encoding the microlens array to reconstruct plenoptic images with high spectral and spatial resolution.
A new saliency detection algorithm for light fields which provides useful focusness, depths, and objectness cues with unique refocusing capability.
New metric to measure the contrast and ringing of a pre-compensated image, and a non-linear tone mapping function significantly improves the contrast.
A prototype XSlit camera by modifying a commercial interchangeable lens camera (Sony NEX-5N). Its lens is replaced by a pair of cylindrical lenses.
A light field probe based solution to reconstruct the refractive index field (RIF) within the gas volume.
A new normal estimation from Ray-Ray correspondences and a angular-domain surface integration scheme to recover the fluid surface.

Thanks to

Lab Sponsors
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
Email

