Professor: Jisun An
University: Indiana University
URL: https://luddy.indiana.edu/contact/profile/index.html?Jisun_An
Description: Skip to Content
Skip to Main Navigation
Skip to Search

Indiana University Bloomington

Luddy School of
Informatics, Computing, and Engineering
About
Admissions
Academics
Student Life
Research
Careers
Alumni & Giving
Contact
PeopleNewsEvents
Home
Contact
profile
PROFILE OF JISUN AN

 
Jisun An
Assistant Professor

Email: jisunan@iu.edu
Office: Luddy Center for Artificial Intelligence (1015 E. 11th St.) | Room: 2024
Website: https://jisun.me/
Office Hours



Request by email

Education
Ph.D. in Computer Science at University of Cambridge, 2015
M.S. in Computer Science at KAIST, 2009
B.S. in Computer Sciecne at KAIST, 2007
Biography

Jisun An is an Assistant Professor at the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering, IU Bloomington. She is a member of the SODA (Social Data and AI) Lab (https://soda-labo.github.io), where she develops AI and NLP methods to understand, predict, and nudge online human behavior and to tackle various social problems, from media bias and framing, polarization, online hate, to healthy lifestyle and urban changes. Before joining Luddy, she was an Assistant Professor at the School of Computing and Information Systems, Singapore Management University (SMU-SCIS). Before that, she was a scientist at Qatar Computing Research Institute, HBKU. She received her Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Cambridge, UK.

Luddy Research Areas
Crosscutting
Data Science @Luddy
Health@Luddy
Intradepartmental
Complex Networks and Systems
Social Informatics
Departmental
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
Data Science
Other Research Areas
Computational Social Science
Natural Language Processing
Online Human Behavior
Social Computing
Update your profile
Request Information
People Directory
Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering resources and social media channels
LUDDY INTRANET SERVICE REQUESTS
Twitter
 
Facebook
 
Instagram
 
YouTube
 
LinkedIn

Accessibility | College Scorecard | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2024 The Trustees of Indiana University

