Professor: John A. Stankovic
University: University of Virginia
URL: https://engineering.virginia.edu/faculty/john-stankovic
Description: Skip Main Navigation
Skip to site alert
John A. Stankovic
Menu Secondary
Departments & Programs
News & Events
Offices
Info For
Info For
Search
Submit
Main navigation
Site
Graduate Study
Undergraduate Study
Research
Our Faculty
About Our School
Contact
Email
stankovic@cs.virginia.edu
Mobile
(434) 982-2275
Location
Olsson 247
Lab
​Rice 540
P.O. Box 400740
Charlottesville, VA 22904

Breadcrumb
Home
/
Faculty
John A. Stankovic
John A. Stankovic
BP America Professor Emeritus
Director Emeritus of the Link Lab
Google Scholar﻿
Research Summary﻿
Website﻿
Link Lab﻿
About

Professor John A. Stankovic is the Emeritus BP America Professor in the Computer Science Department at the University of Virginia and was Co-founder and Director of the Link Lab. In 2024 he was awarded the IEEE Simon Ramo Medal. He has also been awarded an Honorary Doctorate from the University of York for his work in real-time systems. In 2022 he was elected to the Virginia Academy of Science, Engineering, and Medicine. He won the IEEE Real-Time Systems Technical Committee's Award for Outstanding Technical Contributions and Leadership. He also won the IEEE Technical Committee on Distributed Processing Distinguished Achievement Award (inaugural winner). He also won the 2022 IEEE TCCPS Technical Achievement Award for his work in Cyber Physical Systems. 

He has two test of time paper awards, nine Best Paper awards, and eleven Best Paper runner up awards. Stankovic has an h-index of 125 and over 68,500 citations. In 2015 he was awarded the Univ. of Virginia Distinguished Scientist Award, and in 2010 the School of Engineering’s Distinguished Faculty Award. In 2020, he received the Research Mentor Award from UVA. He also received a Distinguished Faculty Award from the University of Massachusetts. He has given more than 45 Keynote talks at conferences and many Distinguished Lectures at major Universities He was the Editor-in-Chief for the IEEE Transactions on Distributed and Parallel Systems and was founder and co-editor-in-chief for the Real-Time Systems Journal and the ACM Transactions on Computing for Healthcare.

 
Education

BSEE Brown University, 1970

​M.S. Computer Science, Brown University, 1975

Ph.D. Computer Science, Brown University, 1979

"Our main work is creating smart technology for healthcare, especially for the elderly. Using smart homes, phones, wearables, and in-situ sensors, our technology is applied to patients with dementia, or obesity. We are also performing research for smart cities of the future. In particular, the smart cities work focuses on improving services and ensuring safety of smart cities."

John A. Stankovic
BP America Professor Emeritus
Research Interests
Internet of Things
Smart Health
Smart Cities
Cyber Physical Systems
Real-Time Systems
Selected Publications
AsthmaGuide: An Asthma Monitoring and Advice Ecosystem, Wireless Health, nominated for best paper, Oct. 2016.
H. RA, A. Salekin, H. Yoon, J. Kim, S. Nirjon, D. Stone, S. Kim, J. Lee, S. Son, and J. Stankovic
CityGuard: A Watchdog for Safety-Aware Conflict Detection and Resolution in Smart Cities, IOTDI, April 2017, April 2017.
M. Ma, S. Preum, and J. Stankovic
PreCluDe: Conflict Detection in Textual Health Advice, Percom 2017, March 2017.
S. Preum, A. Mondol, M. Ma, H.Wang, and J. Stankovic
T-kernel: Providing Reliable OS Support to Wireless Sensor Networks, ACM SenSys, acceptance rate 19%, Best Paper Award, Nov. 2006.
L. GU and J. Stankovic
Range-Free Localization Schemes for Large Scale Sensor Networks, Mobicom, September 2003. (acceptance rate 9%).
T. He, C. Huang, B. Blum, J. Stankovic, T. Abdelzaher
Courses Taught
Cyber Physical Systems
Smart Homes, Phones, Watches and Beyond
Signal Processing, Machine Learning and Feedback Control
Awards
Life Fellow of the IEEE (for research contributions in distributed and real-time computing)
1994
Fellow of the ACM
1996
Honorary Doctorate, for Research in Real-Time Computing, University of York, U.K.
2015
University of Virginia Distinguished Scientist Award
August 2015
School of Engineering Distinguished Faculty Award, Univ. of Virginia.
Sept. 2010
Outstanding Scholar Award - School of Engineering, University of Massachusetts
1983
IEEE Award for Outstanding Technical Contributions and Leadership in Real-TimeSystems - TC on Real-Time Systems
December 2000
IEEE TC on Distributed Processing Annual Distinguished Achievement Award, inaugural winner.
June 2006
Nine Best Paper Awards. Eleven Best Paper Runner Up Awards.
Microsoft Academic Search: citation by area - highest rated person in real-time and embedded systems.
Spring Scheduling Co-Processor Designs Won First and Second Place in MCC VLSI Design Contest
1993
PhD thesis published as a book as part of a series of the best PhD theses in CompSci.
1980
UVA Research Mentor Award
2020
IEEE Test of Time Award for 1988 Misconceptions of Real-Time Computing Paper
2020
IEEE TCRTS Test of Time Award for paper from RTAS 2002 conference
2021
IEEE TCCPS Technical Achievment Award for Cyber Physical Systems
2022
Elected to Virginia Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine
2022
IEEE 2024 Simon Ramo Medal
2024
News
How AI Could Help Those Who Care for People With Dementia

Professor Emeritus John "Jack" Stankovic discusses an AI application to help Alzheimer's caregivers track their moods. Virginia Public Radio's Sandy Hausman reports for Radio IQ.

Read Now
﻿
High-Tech ‘Ear’ Lets Alzheimer’s Caregivers Keep Eye on Emotions

UVA Engineering researchers created AI that listens for mood changes and protects Alzheimer’s caregivers’ mental health.

Read Now
﻿
UVA Engineering’s Jack Stankovic Receives IEEE Medal

Stankovic has earned one of the IEEE’s highest honors for his work in the theory of real-time and resource-constrained, distributed systems and the practice of cyber-physical and health systems.

Read Now
﻿
UVA Computer Science Alum Chenyang Lu Named Director of Washington University’s AI for Health Institute

Professor emeritus Jack Stankovic’s former Ph.D. advisee has added another title and award to an already impressive résumé.

Read Now
﻿
John A. Stankovic
UVA Engineers Make the World a Better Place: Pursuing better health care, designing the future of technology and creating sustainable solutions to society's challenges.
Social
Instagram
facebook
YouTube
LinkedIn
x
Quick
APPLY
VISIT
GIVE
VIRGINIA.EDU
Footer
Office Directory
Jobs@UVA
News
Events
Current Grads
Current Undergrads
Diversity
Thornton Hall, 351 McCormick Road,
Charlottesville, VA 22904
Phone: 
(434) 924-3072
Utility
Accessibility
Media
Non-Discrimination Policy
Privacy Policy

© 2024 University of Virginia School of Engineering and Applied Science

