Professor: Joyce C. Ho
University: Emory University
URL: https://joyceho.github.io/
Description: about
(current)
group
projects
publications
courses
cv
Joyce C Ho

Associate Professor, CS@Emory University.

400 Dowman Dr

Atlanta, GA 30322

(404)-727-5605

I am an associate professor in the Computer Science Department at Emory University. I have a Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Texas at Austin, and an M.A. and B.S. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Massachusetts Institute of Technology. I previously co-founded a successful healthcare analytics company (Accordion Health) and worked at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.

My research focuses on the development of novel data mining and machine learning algorithms to address problems in healthcare. Recent projects include identifying patient subgroups or phenotypes, integration of new streams of data, fusing different modalities of data (e.g., structured medical codes and unstructured text), and dealing with conflicting expert annotations.

I am always looking for students (undergraduate, masters, and PhD). Please see my group page for more info about contacting me.

news
Dec 4, 2023	Honored to receive the 2023 ICDM Young Female Scholar in Data Science Award.
Sep 28, 2023	Congratulations to Eric Lee for successfully defending his PhD dissertation!
May 7, 2023	Congratulations to Carrie Gu, Kevin Wu, Ruby Wu, and Tiantian Li for graduating with highest honors.
May 2, 2023	Carrie Gu and Tiantian Li win the Emory CS Academic Excellence Award and Undergraduate Research Award.
Mar 28, 2023	Congratulations to Jing Zhang for successfully defending his PhD dissertation!
Jan 1, 2023	CHIL 2023 General co-chair! Submit your papers by 2/3/2024.
Nov 28, 2022	Ran Xu’s paper on hypergraphs for EHR receives a best paper award at ML4H.
May 20, 2022	NSF Career Award receipient to help untangle drivers of health disparities.
May 8, 2022	Congratulations to Helen Zeng and Leo Sheng for graduating with highest honors.
Apr 14, 2022	Jing Zhang receives the COVID Innovation for Teaching and Research Award.
selected publications
A comprehensive and improved definition for hospital-acquired pressure injury classification based on electronic health records: Comparative Study
Mani Sotoodeh, Wenhui Zhang, Roy L Simpson, Vicki Stover Hertzberg, Joyce C Ho, and  others
JMIR Medical Informatics, 2023
HTML PDF
 
SR-CoMbEr: Heterogeneous network embedding using community multi-view enhanced graph convolutional network for automating systematic reviews
Eric W Lee, and Joyce C Ho
In European Conference on Information Retrieval, 2023
HTML PDF
 
Best Paper
Counterfactual and factual reasoning over hypergraphs for interpretable clinical predictions on EHR
Ran Xu, Yue Yu, Chao Zhang, Mohammed K Ali, Joyce C Ho, and Carl Yang
In Proceedings of the 2nd Machine Learning for Health symposium, 2022
HTML PDF
 
GDA-AM: On the effectiveness of solving mini-max optimization via Anderson mixing
Huan He, Shifan Zhao, Yuanzhe Xi, Joyce Ho, and Yousef Saad
In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2022
HTML PDF
 
   
Contact me via email.
© Copyright 2024 Joyce C Ho. Powered by Jekyll with al-folio theme. Hosted by GitHub Pages.

