Professor: Jugal K. Kalita
University: UCCS
URL: http://www.cs.uccs.edu/~kalita
Description: Give Today
Apply Now
Dr. Jugal Kalita

COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE

Search
Jugal Kalita @UCCS
Jugal Kalita, Ph.D.
Professor and Chair, Computer Science

Email: jkalita@uccs.edu

Phone: 719-255-3432

Address: Department of Computer Science, College of Engineering and Applied Science, 1420 Austin Bluffs Parkway, Colorado Springs, CO 80933-7150

Office: ENGR 178

About Dr. Jugal Kalita

Dr. Kalita received his Bachelor of Technology degree from the Indian Institute of Technology in Kharagpur, India, his Master of Science degree from the University of Saskatchewan, Canada, and a Master of Science and PhD from the University of Pennsylvania. He teaches a variety of classes, having taught almost 20 different classes during his career at UCCS.

Research
Publications
Awards
Teaching
REU Site (Old)

Research Interests

Artificial Intelligence: I am interested particularly in Natural Language Processing and Machine Learning, including Deep Learning. NLP is my primary area of research. In the future, I would like to focus more on this area.
Machine Learning, in particular Deep Learning I am interested in aspects of deep learning such as Incremental and Life-long Learning, Neural Architecture Search, Multi-Modal Learning, and Multi-task Learning. This will be another primary focus area going forward.
Bioinformatics: I am interested in modeling and simulation of biological processes, applications of machine learning to problems in bioinformatics and computational biology. I will take students in this area, only if the research involves natural language processing and/or deep learning in a substantial way.
Computer Security: I am interested primarily in applications of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning to issues in computer security such as Intrusion Detection. If you want to pursue research in this area, a major component has to be Natural Language Processing and Deep Learning.

Prospective Students

If you are a student at any level–Ph.D., MS or Bachelors–and are interested in pursuing research with me, feel free to send me an email or stop by. But, please read below.

If you want to pursue research with me, here is something you must do so that we work together well, and you can be successful in your research.

If you are already at UCCS, you must have taken at least one class with me (if not more), and must have done well, i.e., you must have obtained a grade of A or A- in the class. If you haven’t taken a class with me, we can still start talking about research, but I’ll expect you to take at least one class with me and do well in it. I want you to take classes with me so that you have developed a solid background to do research in AI, NLP or Machine Learning, or applications of these topics in domains in which you are interested.
You may be able to take an independent study with me in lieu of taking a class on a topic related to natural language processing, artificial intelligence or machine learning, and do a good job and get an A. I prefer an actual class though so that I know you have a good background in NLP and Machine/Deep Learning.
If you are not at UCCS and are applying for our MS or Ph.D. program, I would like to see that you have taken at least one class in AI, Machine Learning or NLP in your home institution and received a good grade. And, then you should take classes with me once you are UCCS and receive good grade.

1420 Austin Bluffs Pkwy
Colorado Springs, CO
USA 80918

Phone: 719-255-8227

Toll-free: 1-800-990-8227

CONTACT US
MAP & DIRECTIONS
CAMPUS DIRECTORY
LEADERSHIP
FAQ
ACCREDITATION
ACADEMIC CALENDAR
CURRENT STUDENTS
FACULTY & STAFF
ALUMNI & FRIENDS
PARENTS
GIVE TODAY 

For questions regarding website accessibility or to notify the university regarding online information or functionality that is currently inaccessible, visit Web Feedback.

Copyright
Privacy
Terms of Use
Accessibility
Mission
Security & Fire Safety Report
Careers
Emergency Contact Info
Give to UCCS
Student Consumer Info
Title IX
© Regents of the University of Colorado

