Professor: Kamesh Munagala
University: Duke University
URL: https://users.cs.duke.edu/~kamesh
Description: Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
Kamesh's Webpage	
HomeResearchTeachingBioAdvisingServiceMisc
	
Kamesh Munagala
Professor
Computer Science Department
Duke University. 
Research Overview

My research is in the general area of theoretical computer science, particularly the areas of approximation algorithms, online algorithms, and computational economics.  I work on developing models, algorithms, and markets for resource allocation, decision making, and provisioning problems. These problems arise in a variety of applications -- designing a data network, facility location and clustering, data center scheduling, allocating ad slots, scheduling ride-shares, and civic budgeting.  In these contexts, my work has addressed several research challenges. 

Intractability: Exactly optimal solutions are often inefficient to  compute due to the discrete, combinatorial nature of the problems, and we seek efficient algorithms that compute provably approximate optimal solutions. 

Uncertainty: When future demand is uncertain, we seek algorithms that either work with specified models of uncertainty, or are robust to any possible future.

Pricing and Incentives: In settings where participants may lie about the utility of resources to them, we seek to design appropriate pricing schemes and incentives.

Fairness: In settings where resources are shared and the allocation has to be fair to the participants, we seek models for fairness and devise efficient algorithms for these models.

Duke Theory Group webpage

Some Recent Publications

A complete list of my papers is available on DBLP and on Google Scholar.  See here for more papers and projects.

The limits of interval-regulated price discrimination. 

Individual fairness in graph decomposition. ICML '24.

Fair price discrimination.  SODA '24

Data exchange markets via utility balancing.  WWW '24

Fairness in the assignment problem with uncertain priorities. AAMAS '23

Fair multiwinner elections with allocation constraints. EC '23

Online learning and bandits with queried hints. ITCS '23

Recent Courses

Please see here for a complete list of courses.

Fall '24, Fall '21:   CPS 330:  Algorithm Design

Spring '24: CPS535: Algorithmic Game Theory

Fall '23: CPS 531: Algorithm Design

Spring '23, '21: CPS 230: Discrete Mathematics

Fall '20: CPS 532: Graduate Algorithms

Spring '20:  CPS 630: Randomized Algorithms

Spring '19:  CPS590:  Algorithms for Decision making at Scale

Contact Information

D205, Levine Science Research Center, 

308 Research Drive, Durham NC 27708-0129.

Phone: (919) 660-6598

Email address: <first_name> @cs.duke.edu

Google Sites
Report abuse

