Professor: Kang G. Shin
University: University of Michigan
URL: http://web.eecs.umich.edu/~kgshin
Description:  
RTCL Homepage

	
Courses
	
Students & Collaborators
	
RTCL Alumni Tree
	
  Publications
	Event photos

 
KANG G. SHIN (신강근)
I am the Kevin and Nancy O'Connor Professor of Computer Science, and the Founding Director of the Real-Time Computing Laboratory (RTCL) in the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department at The University of Michigan.

I am currently exploring various exciting research issues in the areas of mobile networks, systems and applications, security and privacy, as well as embedded or cyber-physical systems, especially semi-autonomous (human-in-the-loop) systems. We have also been using and/or developing machine learning, digital signal processing and control algorithms to address research issues associated with these systems. These research issues are often motivated by, and hence their results are applicable to,  real-life systems such as autonomous cars, smart phones and homes, smart connected communities, and human health & wellness.


I have led several major research projects, including:

Mobile wireless networking and computing, including cognitive-radio or software-defined wireless networks, 5G wireless LANs, mobile sensing and apps.

Computation and network security and privacy, including location privacy protection, self-securing mobile handsets, botnets, malware classification, and application protection in untrusted environments.

 Cyber-physical systems by integrating real-time embedded applications and system SW with real-life physical systems like large-scale energy storage systems, ground and space vehicles; low-power embedded real-time OS, scheduling theory, middleware, and networks.

 Resilient and efficient cloud computing service and operation via virtualization-based server consolidation, replication and resource management.

Click here for details of these projects and recent publications.

	

Short biosketch: click here

REAL-TIME COMPUTING LABORATORY
Department of Electrical Engineering 
                                    and  Computer Science
The University of Michigan
2260 Hayward St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2121

PHONES:

            +1 734-763-0391 (voice)
              +1 734-763-8094 (fax)

E-MAIL:   kgshin@umich.edu



	




