Professor: Kangjie Lu
University: University of Minnesota
URL: https://www.cs.umn.edu/people/kangjie-lu
Description: Skip to main content
Go to the U of M home page
One Stop MyU: For Students, Faculty, and Staff
Search
	
	
College of Science and Engineering
Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Give to the CS&E department
I am...
»
About
»
Undergraduate
»
Graduate
»
Research
»
People
»
Connect
»
DEI initiatives
»
Home
Bachelor's
M.S./Ph.D.
Research

CS&E has grown from a small group of visionary numerical analysts into a worldwide leader in computing education, research, and innovation.

AI for a Changing World

CS&E researchers are applying AI techniques to combat climate change, improve medical outcomes, and help humans better understand and utilize technology.

CS&E Earns Three DEI Leadership Showcase Awards

Professor Maria Gini earned a faculty award, and Nhi Dang and Lauren Hagen earned undergraduate student awards.

Lind Hall Diversity Wall

The third floor of Lind Hall now features the Diversity Wall, which highlights the computer science contributions of marginalized groups throughout history.

Oct
1
TUE 12:00am
Post-Baccalaureate Certificate application deadline for spring
View more events
Internship Spotlight: Juggling data at Petabyte scale everyday
Hemanth Kumar Tirupati talks about his experience working at Amazon Web Services
Internship spotlight: Learning Soft Skills
Riya Bharti talks about her internship experience working at Medtronic
Congratulations to the 2024-25 CS&E Scholarship Recipients
The Department of Computer Science & Engineering has selected 37 undergraduate students to receive scholarships for the 2024-25 academic year.
View more news
2,423
undergraduate students
537
graduate students
69
faculty members

The Department of Computer Science & Engineering at the University of Minnesota has come a long way in the past 50 years. We have made tremendous progress and have become one of the most vibrant and interdisciplinary departments within the College of Science and Engineering, the University of Minnesota, and the computer science field at large.

Watch and listen to stories of how the department started, the years of growth, and where we are headed in the future.

 

 

 

Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Main Office	Student Services
4-192 Keller Hall
200 Union Street SE
Minneapolis, MN 55455  
(612) 625-4002
csdesk@umn.edu	324 Lind Hall
207 Church Street SE
Minneapolis, MN 55455  
(612) 625-4002
csdesk@umn.edu

 

CS&E Department Portal 
Website Change FormSubmit CS&E News
Contact info
Grants management
Linux incident
Admin forms
Purchasing
Directory updates
Chrome River/Travel
Employment
COVID-19 resources
© 2024 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Privacy Statement
Report Web Disability-Related Issue

