Professor: Katerina Fragkiadaki
University: Carnegie Mellon University
URL: https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~katef
Description: Katerina Fragkiadaki

I am interested in building machines that understand the stories that videos portray, and, inversely, in using videos to teach machines about the world. The pen-ultimate goal is to build a machine that understands movie plots, and the ultimate goal is to build a machine that would want to watch Bergman over this.

I am a JPMorgan Chase Associate Professor of Computer Science in the Machine Learning Department at Carnegie Mellon University. Prior to joining MLD's faculty I spent three wonderful years as a post doctoral researcher first at UC Berkeley working with Jitendra Malik and then at Google Research in Mountain View working with the video group. I completed my Ph.D. in GRASP, UPenn with Jianbo Shi. I did my undergraduate studies at the National Technical University of Athens and before that I was in Crete.

Dear prospective graduate students: There is no need to email, please submit your application to our School following the links here: MLD Ph.D. or R.I. Ph.D.

8107 Gates Hillman
Carnegie Mellon University
Pittsburgh, PA, 15213
katef 'at' cs.cmu.edu
Admin: Christine Martik, cmartik@andrew.cmu.edu


News:
I will give a talk at the future for Machine learning symposium in ISTA, Vienna.
I will give a talk on Generative simulation at the data generation for robotics workshop and on 3D scene representations and structured generative models for compositional language grounding at the geometric and algebraic structures for robot learning workshop at RSS 24.
I will give a talk on unified 2D/3D foundational models over images, language and actions in Multimodal 3D scenes workshop, on image and video perception with generative feedback in Generative models for Computer Vision workshop and on memory prompting for 3D scene understanding in Compositional 3D vision workshop at CVPR 24.
I will be giving a talk at ICRA 2024 workshops the 3D visual representations for robot manipulation and Expanding Frontiers of Sim2Real: Robotics, biomechanics, plasma physics, chip design, and beyond.
I will be giving a talk at the Toronto vision seminar.
I gave a talk at the Active methods in autonomous navigation workshop at ICRA 2023, and at the 2nd Workshop on Computer Vision in the Wild and C3DV: 1st Workshop On Compositional 3D Vision workshops in CVPR 2023.
I will be a program chair for ICLR 2024.
Our research was awarded an Amazon research faculty award.
I gave a talk in Archimedes, a Greek summer school on AI.
I gave talks in three CVPR 2022 workshops, Workshop on Learning with Limited Labelled Data for Image and Video Understanding , 4th International Workshop on Visual Odometry \& Computer Vision Applications Based on Location Clues, and Embodied AI workshop.
I gave a Keynote talk at BMVC 2021.
I gave a Keynote talk at 3DV 2021.
I gave a talk in the ICCV workshop for Learning 3D Representations for Shape and Appearance and on 6th Workshop on Benchmarking Multi-Target Tracking (Segmenting and Tracking Every Point and Pixel).
Our team's research was awarded a DARPA Young Investigator Award 2021 to support work on analogical planning agents with visuomotor commonsense.
I gave 3 talks in CVPR 2021 workshops, on language for 3D scenes , Robust Video Scene Understanding and Learning to Generate 3D Shapes and Scenes workshop.
I gave a talk on self-supervising 3D scene and object representations for perception and control in the Self-Supervised Learning-Theory and Practice workshop in NeurIPS 2020.
Our team's research was awarded an Amazon Faculty Award 2020. to support work on object manipulation across diverse environments and viewpoints
I got a Young Inverstigator Award from AFOSR (the Air Force Research Laboratory) to suport work that will develop intelligent multimodal surveillance systems. Special thanks to Chris and Adam for their help on proposal preparation.
I gave a talk on neural scene representations for the Geometric Processing and 3D Computer Vision series.
I gave a talk on ego-stabilized visual learning at the Workshop on Long-Term Visual Localization, Visual Odometry and Geometric and Learning-based SLAM and on Embodied visual learning with neural 3D scene representations at the 3D Scene Understanding for Vision, Graphics, and Robotics. Check out also the visual physics tutorial .
I got an NSF CAREER award from NSF IIS. Special thanks to Chris, Phil, and Adam for their help, and for making the submission preparation way more fun than what it is supposed to be.
I am an area chair for ICML 2020, NeurIPS 2020, CVPR 2021, ICML 2022, CVPR 2022, NeurIPS 2020, ECCV 2022, ICLR 2021.
Workshop on common sense of a toddler coming up in CVPR 2020.
I was awarded a Sony faculty research award 2019
I gave a talk on Embodied Visual Recognition at Google Seattle, UberATG, and RobustAI, 40 years anniversary of GRASP lab
Area chair CVPR 2020, ICLR 2021
I gave a talk on Adversarial Inverse Graphics Networks at Augmenting humans workshop, CVPR 2019
I gave a talk on Embodied Visual recognition at Bringing Robots to the Computer Vision Community Workshop, CVPR, 2019
I gave a talk on Embodied language Grounding at The How2 Challenge: New Tasks for Vision and Language Workshop, ICML 2019
I gave a talk on geometry-aware deep visual learning at the theory and practice in ML and CV workshop at ICERM, slides and video are available.
I was awarded a UPMC faculty research award 2019
Ricson is selected as a runner-up of the CRA Outstanding Undergraduate Researcher Award for 2019 !
Area chair ICML 2019, ICLR 2019
We are organizing an AI4ALL summer school to expose rising juniors to AI and the good it can do for the world, as we see it, here in CMU!
Area chair CVPR 2018
I was awarded a Google faculty award 2018
Teaching
Deep Reinforcement Learning and Control Spring 2024
Deep Reinforcement Learning and Control Fall 2023
Deep Reinforcement Learning and Control Spring 2023
Deep Reinforcement Learning and Control Fall 2022

Research
Teaching machines to appreciate Bergman is a hard problem, in fact, most people fail to do so. Thus, it is a very long term goal of our research. Meanwhile, we are working on teaching machines basic common sense. Our recent works use recurrent nets with 3D representation bottlenecks that disentangle camera motion from appearance, while being optimized end-to-end for a final task, such as view prediction or 3D object detection. In this way, our models learn object permanence, size constancy, occlusions and dis-occlusion relationships, useful for 3D object detection, affordance learning and language grounding.
Selected Publications
	
Video Diffusion Alignment via Reward Gradients
Mihir Prabhudesai, Russell Mendonca, Zheyang Qin, Katerina Fragkiadaki, Deepak Pathak

VADER alignes video diffusion models using end-to-end reward gradient backpropagation from off-the-shelf differentiable reward functions.
arxiv
paper | project page

	
ICAL: Continual Learning of Multimodal Agents by Transforming Trajectories into Actionable Insights
Gabriel Sarch, Lawrence Jang, Michael Tarr, William Cohen, Kenneth Marino, Katerina Fragkiadaki

ICAL is a SGD-free in-context VLM method where VLMs are promopted to map demonstration trajectories into experience abstractions to store in an external memory, and retrieve them on-the-fly to use as in-context examples.
arxiv
paper | project page

	
DreamScene4D: Dynamic Multi-Object Scene Generation from Monocular Videos
Wen-Hsuan Chu*, Lei Ke*, Katerina Fragkiadaki

DreamScene4D generates 3D dynamic scenes of multiple objects from monocular videos training-free, using object-centric diffusion priors and pixel and motion reprojection error.
arxiv
paper | project page


	
ODIN: A Single Model for 2D and 3D Perception
Ayush Jain, Pushkal Katara, Nikolaos Gkanatsios, Adam W. Harley, Gabriel Sarch, Kriti Aggarwal, Vishrav Chaudhary, Katerina Fragkiadaki

ODIN processes both RGB images and sequences of posed RGB-D images by alternating between 2D and 3D fusion layers using projection and unprojection from camera info. New SOTA in Scannet200.
CVPR 2024
paper | project page with code

	
3D Diffuser Actor: Policy Diffusion with 3D Scene Representations
Tsung-Wei Ke, Nikolaos Gkanatsios, Katerina Fragkiadaki

Combining 3D relative attention transformers with action trajectory diffusion gives SOTA imitation learning robot policies in CALVIN and RLbench.
arxiv
paper | project page with code

	
Diffusion-ES: Gradient-free Planning with Diffusion for Autonomous Driving and Zero-Shot Instruction Following
Brian Yang, Huangyuan Su, Nikolaos Gkanatsios, Tsung-Wei Ke, Ayush Jain, Jeff Schneider, Katerina Fragkiadaki

We combine trajectory diffusion models with evolutionary search and achieve SOTA performance in nuPLAN. We prompt LLMs to map language instructions to shaped reward functions, and optimize them with diffusion-ES, and solve the hardest driving scenarios.
CVPR 2024
paper | project page with code


	
Test-time Adaptation of Discriminative Models via Diffusion Generative Feedback
Mihir Prabhudesai, Tsung-Wei Ke, Alexander C. Li, Deepak Pathak, Katerina Fragkiadaki
NeurIPS 2023
paper | project page with code

	
Open-Ended Instructable Embodied Agents with Memory-Augmented Large Language Models
Gabriel Sarch, Yue Wu, Michael J. Tarr, Katerina Fragkiadaki
EMNLP findings 2023
paper | project page with code

	
Act3D: 3D Feature Field Transformers for Multi-Task Robotic Manipulation
Theophile Gervet, Zhou Xian, Nikolaos Gkanatsios, Katerina Fragkiadaki
CoRL 2023
paper | project page with code

	
Gen2Sim: Scaling up Robot Learning in Simulation with Generative Models
Pushkal Katara, Zhou Xian, Katerina Fragkiadaki
ICRA 2024
paper | project page with code


	
ChainedDiffuser: Unifying Trajectory Diffusion and Keypose Prediction for Robotic Manipulation
Zhou Xian, Nikolaos Gkanatsios, Theophile Gervet, Tsung-Wei Ke, Katerina Fragkiadaki
CoRL 2023
paper | project page with code

	
Test-time Adaptation with Slot-Centric Models
Mihir Prabhudesai, Anirudh Goyal, Sujoy Paul, Sjoerd van Steenkiste, Mehdi S. M. Sajjadi, Gaurav Aggarwal, Thomas Kipf, Deepak Pathak, Katerina Fragkiadaki
ICML 2023
paper | project page with code


	
Energy-based Models are Zero-Shot Planners for Compositional Scene Rearrangement
Nikolaos Gkanatsios, Ayush Jain, Zhou Xian, Yunchu Zhang, Christopher Atkeson, Katerina Fragkiadaki
RSS 2023
paper | project page with code


	
Simple-BEV: What Really Matters for Multi-Sensor BEV Perception?
Adam W. Harley, Zhaoyuan Fang, Jie Li, Rares Ambrus, Katerina Fragkiadaki
ICRA 2023
paper | project page with code


	
FluidLab: A Differentiable Environment for Benchmarking Complex Fluid Manipulation
Zhou Xian, Bo Zhu, Zhenjia Xu, Hsiao-Yu Tung, Antonio Torralba, Katerina Fragkiadaki, Chuang Gan
ICLR 2023, spotlight
paper | project page with code


	
Analogy-Forming Transformers for Few-Shot 3D Parsing
Nikolaos Gkanatsios, Mayank Singh, Zhaoyuan Fang, Shubham Tulsiani, Katerina Fragkiadaki
ICLR 2023
paper | project page with code


	
Bottom Up Top Down Detection Transformers for Language Grounding in Images and Point Clouds
Ayush Jain, Nikolaos Gkanatsios, Ishita Mediratta, Katerina Fragkiadaki
ECCV 2022
paper | project page with code


	
TIDEE: Tidying Up Novel Rooms using Visuo-Semantic Commonsense Priors
Gabriel Sarch, Zhaoyuan Fang, Adam W. Harley, Paul Schydlo, Michael J. Tarr, Saurabh Gupta, Katerina Fragkiadaki
ECCV 2022
paper | project page with code


	
Particle Videos Revisited: Tracking Through Occlusions Using Point Trajectories
Adam W. Harley, Zhaoyuan Fang, Katerina Fragkiadaki
ECCV 2022, oral
paper | project page with code


	
Visually-Grounded Library of Behaviors for Manipulating Diverse Objects across Diverse Configurations and Views
Jingyun Yang*, Hsiao-Yu Fish Tung*, Yunchu Zhang*, Gaurav Pathak, Ashwini Pokle, Christopher G Atkeson, Katerina Fragkiadaki
CoRL 2021
paper | project page with code


	
Disentangling 3D Prototypical Networks for Few-Shot Concept Learning
Mihir Prabhudesai*, Shamit Lal*, Darshan Patil*, Hsiao-Yu Tung, Adam Harley, Katerina Fragkiadaki
ICLR 2021
paper | project page with code


	
HyperDynamics: Generating Expert Dynamics Models by Observation
Zhou Xian, Shamit Lal, Hsiao-Yu Tung, Emmanouil Antonios Platanios, Katerina Fragkiadaki
ICLR 2021
paper | project page with code


	
Track, Check, Repeat: An EM Approach to Unsupervised Tracking
Adam W. Harley, Yiming Zuo, Jing Wen, Ayush Mangal, Shubhankar Potdar, Ritwick Chaudhry, Katerina Fragkiadaki
CVPR 2021
paper | project page with code


	
Move to See Better: Self-Improving Embodied Object Detection
Zhaoyuan Fang, Ayush Jain, Gabriel Sarch, Adam W. Harley, Katerina Fragkiadaki
BMVC 2021
paper | project page


	
CoCoNets: Continuous Contrastive 3D Scene Representations
Shamit Lal, Mihir Prabhudesai, Ishita Mediratta, Adam W. Harley, Katerina Fragkiadaki
CVPR 2021
paper | project page with code


	Tracking Emerges by Looking Around Static Scenes, with Neural 3D Mapping
Adam W. Harley, Shrinidhi K. Lakshmikanth, Paul Schydlo, Katerina Fragkiadaki
ECCV 2020
paper

	Embodied Language Grounding with Implicit 3D Visual Feature Representations
Mihir Prabhudesai*, Hsiao-Yu Fish Tung*, Syed Ashar Javed*, Maximilian Sieb, Adam W. Harley, Katerina Fragkiadaki
CVPR 2020
paper | project page

	
Epipolar Transformers
Yihui He, Rui Yan, Katerina Fragkiadaki, Shoou-I Yu
CVPR 2020
paper | project page


	Graph-structured Visual Imitation
Xian Zhou*, Max Sieb*, Audrey Huang, Oliver Kroemer, Katerina Fragkiadaki
CoRL 2019
paper | project page with code

	Learning from Unlabelled Videos Using Contrastive Predictive Neural 3D Mapping
Adam W. Harley, Fangyu Li, Shrinidhi K. Lakshmikanth, Xian Zhou, Hsiao-Yu Fish Tung, Katerina Fragkiadaki
ICLR 2020
paper | project page with code

	Learning Spatial Common Sense with Geometry-Aware Recurrent Networks
Hsiao-Yu Fish Tung, Ricson Cheng, Katerina Fragkiadaki
CVPR 2019, oral presentation
paper | project page with code

	Model Learning for Look-ahead Exploration in Continuous Control
Arpit Agarwal, Katharina Muelling and Katerina Fragkiadaki
AAAI 2019, oral presentation
paper | project page with code

	Data Dreaming for Object Detection: Learning Object-Centric State Representations for Visual Imitation
Maximilian Sieb and Katerina Fragkiadaki
Humanoids 2018, oral presentation
paper | slides

	Reinforcement Learning of Active Vision for Manipulating Objects under Occlusionss
Ricson Cheng, Arpit Agarwal, and Katerina Fragkiadaki
CoRL 2018
paper | slides | code

	Geometry-Aware Recurrent Neural Networks for Active Visual Recognition
Ricson Cheng, Ziyan Wang, and Katerina Fragkiadaki
NIPS 2018
paper

	Reward Learning from Narrated Demonstrations
Fish Tung, Adam Harley, Liang-Kang Huang, Katerina Fragkiadaki
CVPR 2018
paper | bibtex

	Depth-adaptive Computational Policies for Efficient Visual Tracking
Chris Ying, Katerina Fragkiadaki
EMMCVPR 2017
paper | bibtex

	Self-supervised Learning of Motion Capture
Hsiao-Yu Fish Tung, Wei Tung, Ersin Yumer, Katerina Fragkiadaki
NIPS 2017, spotlight
paper | bibtex | code
	Adversarial Inverse Graphics Networks: Learning 2D-to-3D Lifting and mage-to-Image Translation from Unpaired Supervision
Hsiao-Yu Fish Tung, Adam Harley, William Seto and Katerina Fragkiadaki
ICCV 2017
paper | bibtex | code

	SfM-Net: Learning of Structure and Motion from Video
Sudheendra Vijayanarasimhan, Susanna Ricco, Cordelia Schmid, Rahul Sukthankar and Katerina Fragkiadaki
arxiv

	Motion Prediction Under Multimodality with Conditional Stochastic Networks
Katerina Fragkiadaki, Jonathan Huang, Alex Alemi, Sudheendra Vijayanarasimhan, Susanna Ricco and Rahul Sukthankar
arxiv | video results

	Learning Feature Hierarchies from Long-Range Temporal Associations in Videos
Panna Felsen, Katerina Fragkiadaki, Jitendra Malik and Alexei Efros
Workshop on Transfer and Multi-task Learning, in conjunction with NIPS 2015
paper

	Learning Predictive Visual Models of Physics for Playing Billiards
Katerina Fragkiadaki*, Pulkit Agrawal*, Sergey Levine and Jitendra Malik
ICLR 2016
paper | project page

	Recurrent Network Models for Human Dynamics
Katerina Fragkiadaki, Sergey Levine, Panna Felsen and Jitendra Malik
ICCV 2015
paper | project page

	Human Pose Estimation with Iterative Error Feedback
Joao Carreira, Pulkit Agrawal, Katerina Fragkiadaki, and Jitendra Malik
arXiv
paper|project page with code


	Learning to Segment Moving Objects in Videos
Katerina Fragkiadaki, Pablo Arbelaez, Panna Felsen and Jitendra Malik
CVPR 2015
paper | poster | bibtex | project page with code


	Grouping-Based Low-Rank Video Completion and 3D Reconstruction
Katerina Fragkiadaki, Marta Salas, Pablo Arbelaez, and Jitendra Malik
NIPS 2014
paper | poster | bibtex | project page with code

	Two Granularity Tracking: Mediating Trajectory and Detection Graphs for Tracking under Occlusions
Katerina Fragkiadaki, Weiyu Zhang, Geng Zhang, and Jianbo Shi
ECCV 2012
paper | poster | bibtex | project page with code

	Video Segmentation by tracing Discontinuities in a Trajectory Embedding
Katerina Fragkiadaki, Geng Zhang, and Jianbo Shi
CVPR 2012
paper | poster | bibtex | project page with code

	Detection-free Tracking: Exploiting Motion and Topology for Segmenting and Tracking under Entanglement
Katerina Fragkiadaki and Jianbo Shi
CVPR 2011
paper | poster | bibtex
Current Students
Wen-hsuan Chu R.I. Ph.D.
Mihir Prabhudesai R.I. Ph.D., (co-advised with Deepak Pathak)
Xian Zhou R.I. Ph.D.
Gabriel Sarch , Neuroscience Institute and Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition Ph.D. student, co-advised with Mike Tarr
Brian Yang R.I. Ph.D., co-advised with Jeff Schneider
Nikos Gkanatsios R.I. Ph.D.
Ayush Jain R.I. MSR
Theo Gevret MLD Ph.D.
Tsung-Wei Ke PostDoc

Alumni
Fish Tung, MLD Ph.D., now post doc in M.I.T.
Adam Harley, R.I. Ph.D.
Ricson Chen, undergrad CSD
Zhaoyuan Fang, MSR, R.I.
Mayank Singh, MSR, R.I.
Yunchu Zhang, MSR, R.I.
Ziyan Wang, MSR
Shamit Lal, MSCV
Yiming Zuo , MSR, now Ph.D. in Princeton
Max Sieb, MSR
Arpit Agarwal, MSR
Henry Huang, MSML
Chris Ying, MSML
Yijie Wang, MSML
Darshan Patil , undergraduate CSD, now in MILA Ph.D.
Gaurav Pathak, research associate
Shrinidhi Kowshika Lakshmikanth, research associate
Ashwini Polke, MLD Ph.D.

MISC
Link to the 10th Perceptual Organization for Computer Vision Workshop in conjunction with CVPR 2016 with a focus on the role of feedback and sequential processing for recognition and motion perception
Link to the 2nd International Workshop on Video Segmentation in conjunction with ECCV 2016 with a focus the role of segmentation for driving learning

