Professor: Kathleen Creel
University: Northeastern University
URL: https://cssh.northeastern.edu/faculty/kathleen-katie-creel
Description: Skip to content
EXPLORE NORTHEASTERN
Northeastern University
Explore CSSH
Open menu
College of Social Sciences and Humanities
About
People
Academics
Research
Resources
Stories
Events
Connect
Apply
PEOPLE
PHILOSOPHY AND RELIGION
Kathleen
Creel

Assistant Professor of Philosophy and Computer Science

Dr. Katie Creel is an assistant professor of philosophy and computer science at Northeastern University, holding joint appointments in the College of Social Sciences and Humanities and Khoury College of Computer Sciences. Her research explores the moral, political, and epistemic implications of machine learning as it is used in automated decision-making and in science.

Before joining Northeastern, Creel was the Embedded EthiCS fellow in the Center for Ethics in Society and the Institute for Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence at Stanford University. In this role, she worked with the Stanford Computer Science department to embed ethics in the core curriculum. Creel worked as a software engineer at MIT Lincoln Laboratory and subsequently pursued her doctorate in history and philosophy of science from the University of Pittsburgh. She holds a master’s in philosophy from Simon Fraser University, and a bachelor’s in computer science and philosophy from Williams College.

VIEW CV
RELATED SCHOOLS & DEPARTMENTS

Philosophy and Religion

Education

Ph.D., 2020, History and Philosophy of Science, University of Pittsburgh



Contact
k.creel@northeastern.edu
RELATED TOPICS

Science, Technology, and Society

KATHLEEN ’S COLLEAGUES

John Basl

Associate Professor of Philosophy

Elizabeth Bucar

Professor of Religion; Dean's Leadership Fellow

Patricia Illingworth

Professor of Philosophy and Business; Lecturer, Law and Public Policy

M. Whitney Kelting

Associate Professor of Religious Studies

Jung Lee

Associate Professor of Religious Studies; Undergraduate Program Director (Religious Studies)

In Memoriam Stephen Nathanson

Professor Emeritus

Serena Parekh

Distinguished Professor of Philosophy; Chair, Department of Philosophy and Religion

Ronald Sandler

Professor of Philosophy; Director, Ethics Institute

Rory Smead

Associate Professor of Philosophy; Ronald L. and Linda A. Rossetti Professor for the Humanities; Undergraduate Program Director (Philosophy)

Michael Lipton

Professor Emeritus

Joseph Wellbank

Professor Emeritus

Sheila Winborne

Teaching Professor of Religion

Candice Delmas

Associate Professor of Philosophy and Political Science

Branden Fitelson

Distinguished Professor of Philosophy

Benjamin Yelle

Associate Teaching Professor of Philosophy

The College of Social Sciences and Humanities combines Northeastern University’s signature focus on experiential learning with the rigorous study of society, culture, politics, and ethics.

Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on YouTube
Follow us on Instagram
Follow us on LinkedIn
Support

CSSH is redefining liberal arts education for the next generation of global thinkers. Your support and partnership can help CSSH and our students continue to lead, innovate, and engage with our communities.

MAKE A GIFT PARTNER
Contact

420 Renaissance Park, 1135 Tremont Street

Boston, MA 02115

617.373.5173

CSSHDean@northeastern.edu

CONTACT US STAY IN TOUCH
Arlington
Boston
Burlington
Charlotte
London
Miami
Nahant
Oakland
Portland
Seattle
Silicon Valley
Toronto
Vancouver
Emergency Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Accessibility
|
© 2024 Northeastern University

