Professor: Katharina Reinecke
University: University of Washington
URL: https://www.cs.washington.edu/people/faculty/reinecke
Description: Skip to main content
	
	
MyCSE
Internal
Calendar
Directory
Helpful Links
Computing
CSE Course List
Time/Teaching Schedules
Academic Calendars
UW Homepage
About Us
Contact Us
 
 Quick Links
NEWS & EVENTS
 
PEOPLE
 
ACADEMICS
 
RESEARCH & INNOVATION
 
OUTREACH
 
SUPPORT #UWALLEN
 
APPLY!
Katharina Reinecke
Contact
Katharina Reinecke
CSE 594
reineckecs.washington.edu
Human-Computer Interaction & Accessible Technology
Areas of interest: 
Human-computer interaction, intelligent user interfaces, crowdsourcing, cross-cultural usability of technology, unintended consequences of technology
Biography

Katharina Reinecke is an Associate Professor in the Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering who researches and teaches Human-Computer Interaction and Computing Ethics. She earned her Ph.D. in computer science from the University of Zurich in Switzerland, a diploma (comparable to M.Sc.) in computer science from the University of Koblenz in Germany and was a postdoctoral fellow at Harvard University in the Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences.

Katharina's research in Human-Computer Interaction explores various unintended consequences of technology, such as how technology is often invariably biased against people who are unlike those who commonly design and develop it. Her lab develops systems that help researchers, designers, and developers to better understand and overcome these biases by supporting them in creating more equally beneficial technology. Katharina co-founded LabintheWild, a virtual lab launched in 2012 that has obtained data from nearly 5 million users from over 200 countries through online behavioral studies.

Katharina previously was an assistant professor in the School of Information and Computer Science at the University of Michigan. Her work has earned various Best Paper and Honorable Mention Awards at premier venues for Human-Computer Interaction and an NSF CAREER award, among others. Her research is funded by the National Science Foundation, Microsoft, Google, Adobe, and Facebook.

CONNECT WITH #UWALLEN

  

Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering
University of Washington

Main Administrative Offices:
Paul G. Allen Center, Box 352350
185 E Stevens Way NE
Seattle, WA 98195-2350
Directions

Student Services:
Bill & Melinda Gates Center, Box 352355
3800 E Stevens Way NE
Seattle, WA 98195-2355

Contact us:
Main Tel: (206) 543-1695
Media Inquiries: media at cs.washington.edu
Webmaster: support at cs.washington.edu


Undergraduate Advising: ugrad-adviser at cs.washington.edu
Undergraduate Outreach & Recruitment: outreach at cs.washington.edu
Professional Master's Program Advising: masters at cs.washington.edu
Graduate (Ph.D.) Advising: grad-advising at cs.washington.edu




Computer Engineering degree program accredited by ABET

Copyright © 2017-2021 University of Washington - Seattle - Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering | All Rights | Privacy | Terms

Drupal Login (not the general-purpose CSE login)

