Professor: Kevin Chen-Chuan Chang
University: Univ. of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
URL: https://cs.illinois.edu/directory/profile/kcchang
Description: Skip To Content (Alt+0)
The Grainger College of Engineering is launching the new
Siebel School of
Computing and Data Science

X

This new school will provide an even greater depth of resources to our top-5 ranked computer science program and a planned new building, made possible through a generous
$50 MILLION GIFT
from Illinois alumnus Thomas M. Siebel.

READ MORE ABOUT THIS TREMENDOUS GIFT

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS URBANA-CHAMPAIGN
Alumni
Corporate
People
My.CS
The Grainger College of Engineering
Siebel School of Computing and Data Science
Search
About
Siebel School of Computing and Data Science FAQ
Facts & Rankings
Contact Us & Office Locations
History Timeline
Accreditation
Chicago
Values & Code of Conduct
CS CARES Committee
People
Office of the School Director
All Faculty
All Staff
Postdoctoral Researchers
Graduating PhD Students
Open Positions
Faculty Positions
Postdoctoral Positions
Staff Positions
Choose Illinois
Awards
Celebration of Excellence
Student Award Resources
Faculty Awards
Undergraduate Scholarships & Awards
Graduate Fellowships & Awards
Alumni Awards
Staff Awards
Calendar
All Events
Department Events
Speaker Series
Graduate Events
Undergraduate Events
Corporate Events
CS CARES Events
Student Group Events
Admissions
Admitted Students
Undergraduate Admissions
Apply Now
Degree & Program Options
Application Deadlines
Applications Process & Requirements
Transfer Students
Housing
Accreditation
Graduate Admissions
Apply Now
Degree & Program Options
Application Deadlines
Applications Process & Requirements
Application Checklist
FAQs
Check Application Status
Impact of an Illinois Computing and Data Science Degree
Financial Aid
Academics
Instructional Area
Undergraduate Academics
Degree & Program Options
Registration
Policies and Procedures
Undergraduate Advising
Undergraduate Forms
Honors
Transfer Students
Graduate Academics
PhD Program
MS Program
MS in Bioinformatics Program
Professional Master of Computer Science
Fifth Year Masters Programs
Illinois Computing Accelerator for Non-Specialists (iCAN)
Graduate Forms, Thesis & Advising Resources
Courses
Honor Code
Student Resources
Research
Research Areas
Architecture, Compilers, and Parallel Computing
Artificial Intelligence
Bioinformatics and Computational Biology
Computers and Education
Data and Information Systems
Interactive Computing
Programming Languages, Formal Methods, and Software Engineering
Scientific Computing
Security and Privacy
Systems and Networking
Theory and Algorithms
Research Centers and Initiatives
Illinois-Insper Partnership
Collaborative Research Projects
NSF Expeditions in Computing: Mind in Vitro
Speaker Series
Corporate Partners
Summer Research
Undergraduate Research Opportunities
Directed Reading Program
Trick or Research
Summer Research Program
Research Report
News
Media Mentions
News Notes
E-News
Speaker Series
Banerjee Lecture
Donald B. Gillies Memorial Lecture
Equity & Justice in Computing Lectures
Robert Mueller-Thuns Lecture
Donor Profiles
Impact Report & Publications
Student Life
Overview of Student Life
Student Organizations
Events
Student Resources
Career Services
Course Assistants
Broadening Participation
BPC Departmental Plan
BPC Programs & Activities for Students
CS Student Ambassadors/Research Scholars (CS STARS)
Illinois CS Kickstart
AI4ALL
iCAN
Summer Research Programs
BPC Resources
Cross-Cutting Educational Activities
BPC Conferences & Workshops
Equity & Justice in Computing Seminar Series
K-12 Outreach & Resources
K-12 Outreach Programs
K-12 Resources
Student Organizations
Give
Give Now
Ways to Give
Donor Profiles
Computer Science Visionary Scholarship Donors
HomeAboutPeople
Kevin Chenchuan Chang
Kevin Chenchuan Chang
Professor
(217) 244-2919
kcchang@illinois.edu
2134 Siebel Center for Comp Sci
For More Information
Kevin C.C. Chang's Research Group, the Forward Data Lab
Kevin C.C. Chang
Education
Ph.D. Electrial Engineering, Stanford University, 2001
Biography

Kevin Chen-Chuan Chang is a Professor in Computer Science, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He received a BS from National Taiwan University and PhD from Stanford University in Electrical Engineering. His research addresses large-scale information access and knowledge acquisition, for search, mining, and integration across structured and unstructured big data, with current focuses on Web search/mining and social media analytics. He received ICDE 10-Year Test of Time Award in 2022 and Best Paper Selection/Awards in VLDB 2000 and 2013 and ASONAM 2019, NSF CAREER Award in 2002, NCSA Faculty Fellow Award in 2003, IBM Faculty Awards in 2004 and 2005, Academy for Entrepreneurial Leadership Faculty Fellow Award in 2008, and the Incomplete List of Excellent Teachers at University of Illinois in 2001, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2010, 2011, 2019, 2022, 2023. He is passionate to bring research results to the real world and, with his students, co-founded Cazoodle, a startup from the University of Illinois, and developed GrantForward.com funding discovery and dissemination service, a vertical search engine integrating 20,000 sources, subscribed by 200+ institutions including Harvard, Stanford, Yale, Cornell University, University of California, CMU, Mayo Clinic, and National Institutes of Health.

Professional Highlights
PC Members, SIGMOD, VLDB, ICDE, KDD, EDBT, ICDM, WWW, ASONAM, SIGIR, WSDM, CIKM, AAAI, Recent years.
Area Chair, NeurIPS 2023, 2023.
Associate Editor, Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment (PVLDB), 2014 - 2015.
Area Editor, Encyclopedia of Database Systems, 2014 - 2016.
Workshop Co-chair, 31st IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE 2015), 2014 - 2015.

Click for more

Research Statement

I lead the FORWARD Data Lab group, which is part of the larger Data and Information Systems Laboratories, at the CS department of UIUC. Our research overall aims at bridging structured and unstructured data— to bring structured/semantic-rich access to the myriad and massive unstructured data which accounts for most of the world’s information. Therefore, our research spans natural language processing, data mining, data management/databases, information retrieval, and machine learning. As our objectives, we aim at developing novel systems, principled algorithms, and formal theories that ultimately deliver real-world applications. As our approaches, we seek to be inspired by and learn from the data we are tackling-- i.e., we believe the key to tame big data is to learn the wisdom hidden in the large scale of the data.

Research Interests
Natural language processing, data mining, data management, and information retrieval with machine learning techniques, with emphasis on the application areas of Web and social media-based knowledge acquisition and organization across structured and unstructured data.
Research Areas
Artificial Intelligence
Data and Information Systems
Articles in Conference Proceedings
Are Large Pre-Trained Language Models Leaking Your Personal Information?. Jie Huang, Hanyin Shao, Kevin Chen-Chuan Chang. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2022, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, December 7-11, 2022, 2022.
Coordinated Topic Modeling. Pritom Saha Akash, Jie Huang, Kevin Chen-Chuan Chang. In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, EMNLP 2022, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, December 7-11, 2022, 2022.
DEER: Descriptive Knowledge Graph for Explaining Entity Relationships. Jie Huang, Kerui Zhu, Kevin Chen-Chuan Chang, Jinjun Xiong, Wen-Mei Hwu. In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, EMNLP 2022, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, December 7-11, 2022, 2022.
Understanding Jargon: Combining Extraction and Generation for Definition Modeling. Jie Huang, Hanyin Shao, Kevin Chen-Chuan Chang, Jinjun Xiong, Wen-Mei Hwu. In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, EMNLP 2022, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, December 7-11, 2022, 2022.
Unified and Incremental SimRank: Index-Free Approximation With Scheduled Principle (Extended Abstract). Fanwei Zhu, Yuan Fang, Kai Zhang, Kevin Chen-Chuan Chang, Hongtai Cao, Zhen Jiang, Minghui Wu. In 38th IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering, ICDE 2022, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, May 9-12, 2022, 2022.

Click for more

Teaching Honors
UIUC List of Teachers Ranked as Excellent by Their Students, Fall 2001, Spring 2004, Fall 2005, Spring 2006, Fall 2010, Fall 2011, Fall 2019, Spring 2022, Spring 2023.
Research Honors
ICDE Influential Paper (10-Year Test of Time) Award, IEEE Computer Society, 2022.
Best Demo Award,IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE) 2019.
Best Paper Award, International Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining (ASONAM), 2019.
Best-Papers Selections of Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) 2013.
Academy of Entrepreneurial Leadership Faculty Fellow Award, 2008.

Click for more

Recent Courses Taught
CS 411 - Database Systems
CS 412 CSP - Introduction to Data Mining
CS 511 - Advanced Data Management
CS 598 KCC - Understanding LLMs AKA ChatGPT
CS 598 KCC - Using LLMs AKA ChatGPT

Click for more

Related News
Natural Language Processing Retrieving Real-World Email Addresses From Pretrained Natural Language Models
Illinois, IBM Ready to Push the Boundaries of What's Possible in Computing
Chang creating tools that listen to social universe
Illinois team lands major NSF funding to bring spreadsheets into "Big Data" era
Augmented Reality App Enables Intelligent Shopping Experience
Illinois College of Engineering Announces Siebel Scholars Class of 2013
Siebel School of Computing and Data Science
Twitter
Instagram
Facebook
LinkedIn
YouTube

Thomas M. Siebel Center for Computer Science

201 N. Goodwin Avenue, MC-258

Urbana, IL 61801

The Grainger College of Engineering

Contact Us
ph: 217-333-3426 (general)
ph: 217-333-4428 (advising)
General email: admin@cs.illinois.edu
Graduate Advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu
Undergraduate Advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu
Communications: communications@cs.illinois.edu
Webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu

Chicago Office
200 South Wacker Drive, 7th Floor
Chicago, IL 60606

Admissions
Alumni
Athletics
Calendars
Campus Map
Careers
COVID-19
Directory
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Emergency
Giving
Health and Wellness
International
Land Acknowledgement
Library
News
Parents and Families
Research and Innovation
Strategic Plan
Student Assistance Center
Technology Services
University of Illinois System
About Cookies
Privacy Policy
Copyright © 2024
Accessibility
Webmaster
Login
Cookie Notice

We use Cookies on this site to enhance your experience and improve our marketing efforts. Click on “About Cookies” to learn more. By continuing to browse without changing your browser settings to block or delete Cookies, you agree to the storing of Cookies and related technologies on your device.University of Illinois System Cookie Policy

About Cookies Close this Notice

