Professor: Kevin S. Xu 0001
University: Case Western Reserve University
URL: https://sites.google.com/site/kevinshuaixu
Description: Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
Kevin Shuai Xu	
Home
	
Kevin S. Xu

Assistant Professor
Department of Computer and Data Sciences
Case Western Reserve University
10900 Euclid Ave., Cleveland, OH 44106-7071, USA

Research

I lead the Machine Learning and Network Science (MLNS) laboratory at Case Western Reserve University. Our research is primarily in the areas of machine learning and network science with applications to human dynamics, health care, education, and wearable computing.

Recent news
2024

Jan. 3: I have several openings starting in Fall 2024 for PhD students interested in machine learning and network science, particularly for biomedical and health applications. If you are interested, please email me with your CV, transcripts, GRE scores, and a 2-page summary of your research experience.

2023

Sept. 19: I am co-organizing the Second Symposium on Survival Prediction: Algorithms, Challenges & Applications (SPACA 2023) at the AAAI 2023 Fall Symposium Series. We are open for poster submissions. Please consider participating and submitting your work related to survival prediction and analysis!

Mar. 30: I will be giving a talk at the Institute for Mathematics and its Applications at the University of Minnesota on Tuesday, April 4. It will be livestreamed also on Zoom. Link to seminar

2022

Aug. 16: I have joined Case Western Reserve University as an assistant professor in the Department of Computer and Data Sciences. I have several openings for both graduate and undergraduate research assistants interested in probabilistic machine learning or network science--please email me if you are interested!

Jul. 29: Congratulations to MS student Tanner Hilsabeck for successfully defending his MS thesis "A Hybrid Adjacency and Time-Based Data Structure for Analysis of Temporal Networks" and to MS student Hadeel Soliman for successfully defending her MS thesis "Community Hawkes Models for Continuous-time Networks"!

Jul. 8: Our paper "A hybrid adjacency and time-based data structure for analysis of temporal networks" has been published in Applied Network Science: https://appliednetsci.springeropen.com/articles/10.1007/s41109-022-00489-5 -- congratulations to MS student Tanner Hilsabeck and former MS student Makan Arastuie!

May 16: 2 papers accepted: "The Multivariate Community Hawkes Model for Dependent Relational Events in Continuous-time Networks" (ICML 2022: arXiv preprint) and "A Mutually Exciting Latent Space Hawkes Process Model for Continuous-time Networks" (UAI 2022: arXiv preprint). Congratulations to PhD student Zhipeng Huang and MS student Hadeel Soliman on their first publications since joining the IDEAS Lab!

May 7: I am serving as a tutorial chair for CIKM 2022. General areas of interest for tutorials include general areas include artificial intelligence, data science, databases, information retrieval, and knowledge management. Please feel free to contact me if you would like to discuss a tutorial proposal! Call for tutorials

Apr. 5: I have received the College of Engineering Award for Excellence in Supervision of Undergraduate Research. Thanks to all the wonderful undergraduate student researchers I've had the pleasure of advising!

2021

Dec. 20: Congratulations to PhD student Rehan Ahmad for successfully defending his PhD dissertation and MS student Robert Warton for successfully defending his MS thesis!

Apr. 29: I am honored to receive an NSF CAREER award. Thank you to the NSF for supporting my research! Link to award abstract

Apr. 20: I will be giving a tutorial "Mining Dynamic Networks with Generative Models" at SDM 2021 along with Jimmy Foulds on May 1. Tutorial materials and additional information

Research projects
Education
Honors and awards
Selected publications
Teaching
Selected service to research community
Software
Recent presentations
Older news
Curriculum vitae
Page updated
Google Sites
Report abuse

