Professor: Kilian Q. Weinberger
University: Cornell University
URL: http://www.cs.cornell.edu/~kilian
Description: Kilian Q. Weinberger
WelcomeResearchPublicationsStudentsTeaching
My CS4780 Machine Learning for Intelligent Systems class is now on Youtube. If you are interested in more, you can earn an official Machine Learning Certificate through eCornell with especially designed problem sheets and high quality videos (with fancy 3D animations). Here is a video, if you want to learn more about my research philosophy.

Bio: Kilian Weinberger is a Professor in the Department of Computer Science at Cornell University. He received his Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania in Machine Learning under the supervision of Lawrence Saul and his undergraduate degree in Mathematics and Computing from the University of Oxford. During his career he has won several best paper awards at ICML (2004), CVPR (2004, 2017), AISTATS (2005) and KDD (2014, runner-up award). In 2011 he was awarded the Outstanding AAAI Senior Program Chair Award and in 2012 he received an NSF CAREER award. In 2016 he was the recipient of the Daniel M Lazar '29 Excellence in Teaching Award and in 2021 became a Blavatnik National Awards Finalists. He was elected co-Program Chair for ICML 2016 and for AAAI 2018 and became president of the ICML society in 2023. He is a fellow of AAAI and ACM. Kilian Weinberger's research focuses on Machine Learning and its applications. In particular, he focuses on learning under resource constraints, metric learning, AI in Science, computer vision and deep learning. Before joining Cornell University, he was an Associate Professor at Washington University in St. Louis and before that he worked as a research scientist at Yahoo! Research in Santa Clara. (C.V..)

Interested in joining my lab as Ph.D. student? Please take a look at this page.



If you are a Cornell student and want to get in contact with me, please just show up to my office hours (see link in side bar). Please do not email me unless absolutely necessary.

About me: I am married to (the amazing) Anne Bracy. Together we have three children, Timo, Koby and Nika. In my spare time I like running, reading, skiing, mountain biking, or boating on Cayuga Lake. Some books that I really enjoyed are The Three Body Problem Trilogy, a Gentleman in Moscow, The things they carried, and Never Let Me Go.


Kilian Q. Weinberger

Professor of Computer Science
Cornell University
Gates Hall, Room 410
Ithaca, NY 14853-7501

Office Hours: Book Office Hours

email: kilian () cornell.edu
Tel: (607) 255 4845

© 2017 Kilian Weinberger Contact Me

