Professor: Konstantin Makarychev
University: Northwestern University
URL: http://www.mccormick.northwestern.edu/research-faculty/directory/profiles/makarychev-konstantin.html
Description: NEWS & EVENTS
CONTACT & VISIT
INFO FOR
Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Companies
Search this site
Search
ABOUT
Overview
Discover our philosophy rooted in whole-brain thinking.
Leadership
Meet our deans, chairs, school leaders, and advisory council.
Departments & Institutes
Explore our academic departments, centers, and institutes that provide many opportunities for cross-disciplinary collaboration.
Facilities
View our facilities located in several connected buildings on the Evanston campus, plus a space in San Francisco.
Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion
See McCormick’s commitment that all students, faculty, and staff are welcome, respected, and able to fully engage in our community.
History
View our growth and timeline since the school was established in 1909.
Learn what it means to become a whole-brain engineer.

It takes a different way of thinking to connect disparate fields, put big ideas into action, and imagine what’s next.
LEARN MORE

ACADEMICS
Academics Overview
Explore our degrees, programs, courses, and other enrichment opportunities.
All Areas of Study
View a chart of all study areas cross-categorized by degree type.
Undergraduate Study
Explore majors, minors, student groups, research, enrichment, and support opportunities. Plan your visit to campus and start your application.
Graduate Study
Explore our full-time and part-time master's and PhD offerings and learn how to apply.
Departments and Programs
See a list of all academic departments and professional programs.
Apply to Northwestern Engineering
Learn more about the application process for your program of interest.
QUICK LINKS
Undergraduate Student Resources
Undergraduate Advising
Graduate Student Resources
Academic Integrity
Graduation Information
RESEARCH & FACULTY
Research Areas and Centers
View our interdisciplinary research centers, programs, and collaborations.
Faculty Directory
Meet our award-winning faculty, including several national academy members.
FACULTY FINDER
Search
OFFICES & SERVICES
Office of the Dean
Strategic vision and leadership
Administration, Finance, Facilities, & Planning
Infrastructure support including: finance, HR, facilities/space/safety
Alumni Relations & Development
School-level giving, including annual, estate, and memorial giving
Career Development
Career support including: Cooperative Education (Co-op), internships, service learning, and research
Corporate Engagement
Industry connections and partnerships
Customer Service Center
Reimbursements, office moves, lab, renovations, research appointments, and more
Faculty Affairs
Liaison between engineering faculty and the Provost's Office
Global Initiatives
Opportunities and resources to engage in global scholarly activity
Graduate Studies
MS and PhD student recruitment, admittance, and enrollment
Information Technology
Computer and technology support
Marketing & Communications
Promotion of school activities and consistent brand messaging
McCormick Advising System
Undergraduate student advising
Personal Development StudioLab
Student assistance with both their academic and extracurricular lives
Professional Education
Support for master's degree programs geared toward working or transitioning professionals
Research Offices
Faculty support in pursing/managing external funding for research
Undergraduate Engineering
Operations and administrative support for students and faculty
QUICK LINKS
Academic Departments
Facilities
Lost and Found
Faculty & Staff Resources
IN THIS SECTION
Research and Faculty
Faculty Directory
Faculty Fellows
FACULTY DIRECTORY
Konstantin Makarychev

Professor of Computer Science

Associate Chair for Graduate Studies

Contact
2233 Tech Drive
Mudd Room 3009
Evanston, IL 60208-3109

Email Konstantin Makarychev
Website

Konstantin Makarychev's Homepage

Departments

Computer Science

Download CV

Education

Ph.D. Computer Science, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ

B.S. Mechanics and Mathematics, Moscow State University, Moskva, Russia



Biography

I am interested in designing efficient algorithms for computationally hard problems. The aim of my research is to introduce new core techniques and design general principles for developing and analyzing algorithms that work in theory and practice. My research interests include approximation algorithms, beyond worst-case analysis, and applications of high-dimension geometry to computer science.

Before joining Northwestern University, I was a researcher at Microsoft and IBM Research Labs. I obtained my PhD in Computer Science from Princeton University in 2007.

Research Interests

The aim of my research is to introduce new core techniques and design general principles for developing and analyzing algorithms that work in theory and practice. My research interests include approximation algorithms, beyond worst-case analysis, and applications of high-dimension geometry in computer science.



Selected Publications

Explainable k-means. Don’t be greedy, plant bigger trees!

Konstantin Makarychev and Liren Shan

STOC 2022

 

Near-optimal algorithms for explainable k-medians and k-means

Konstantin Makarychev and Liren Shan

ICML 2021

 

Local Correlation Clustering with Asymmetric Classification Errors

Jafar Jafarov, Sanchit Kalhan, Konstantin Makarychev, Yury Makarychev

ICML 2021

 

Batch Optimization for DNA Synthesis

Konstantin Makarychev, Miklos Z. Racz, Cyrus Rashtchian, Sergey Yekhanin

ISIT 2021

 

Two-sided Kirszbraun Theorem

Arturs Backurs, Sepideh Mahabadi, Konstantin Makarychev, Yury Makarychev

SoCG 2021

 

Improved Guarantees for k-means++ and k-means++ Parallel

Konstantin Makarychev, Aravind Reddy, Liren Shan

NeurIPS 2020

 

Correlation Clustering with Asymmetric Classification Errors

Jafar Jafarov, Sanchit Kalhan, Konstantin Makarychev, Yury Makarychev

ICML 2020

 

Bisect and Conquer: Hierarchical Clustering via Max-Uncut Bisection

Sara Ahmadian, Vaggos Chatziafratis, Alessandro Epasto, Euiwoong Lee, Mohammad Mahdian, Konstantin Makarychev, Grigory Yaroslavtsev

AISTATS 2020

 
BACK TO TOP
Northwestern Seal

McCormick School of Engineering,  Northwestern University

Technological Institute, 2145 Sheridan Road, Evanston, IL 60208

view all contact info

AdmissionsFaculty DirectoryGive to McCormickTech Room Finder / MapsEmergency InformationNorthwestern HomeTech Lost and FoundReport an Accessibility Issue
McCormick on twitterMcCormick on facebookMcCormick on linkedinMcCormick on instagramMcCormick on youtube
© 2024  Robert R. McCormick School of Engineering and Applied Science, Northwestern University  Disclaimer

