Professor: Konstantinos Psounis
University: University of Southern California
URL: https://sites.usc.edu/kpsounis
Description: Skip to content
Konstantinos Psounis

Professor, University of Southern California

HOME
 
RESEARCH
 
PUBLICATIONS
 
PATENTS
 
FUNDING
 
AWARDS
 
STUDENTS
 
TEACHING
 
SPORTS AND HOBBIES
Home
	
Konstantinos Psounis
Professor
Ming Hsieh department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Thomas Lord department of Computer Science
School of Advanced Computing
Viterbi School of Engineering
University of Southern California

Curriculum Vitae in pdf

Bio

Konstantinos Psounis is a Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and of Computer Science at the University of Southern California. Prior to this he was an Assistant Professor and then an Associate Professor at the same university. He graduated first in his class from the department of Electrical and Computer Engineering of National Technical University of Athens, Greece, and completed an M.S. and  a Ph.D. degree in Electrical Engineering at Stanford University, California, as a Stanford graduate fellow.

Konstantinos works on modeling, performance analysis, algorithm design, machine learning methods, and system design and implementation for efficient, AI-enabled and privacy-preserving networked, distributed systems, including the Internet and the web, data centers and cloud systems, wireless systems (e.g. WiFi, cellular, IoT, spectrum sharing, delay tolerant, mobile ad hoc), augmented and virtual reality systems, autonomous robotic/vehicle/drone systems, and peer to peer systems. He is the author of more than 120 research papers on these topics which have received more than 14000 citations. He has received faculty awards and funding from numerous governmental agencies and high-tech industry leaders. He is an IEEE Fellow and an ACM Distinguished Member.

Contact

Konstantinos Psounis
telephone: 213-7404453
email: kpsounis at usc dot edu
office: RTH 409
address: 3740 McClintock Avenue, EEB 200, Los Angeles, CA 90089, US

Konstantinos Psounis

Professor, University of Southern California

University of Southern California Logo

