Professor: Kyunghyun Cho
University: New York University
URL: http://www.kyunghyuncho.me/
Description: Skip to content

Kyunghyun Cho

About me

Kyunghyun Cho

Professor at CILVR Group
Computer Science (Courant Institute) and Center for Data Science
Interim Deputy Director at the Center for Data Science
New York University

Co-Founder & Senior Director of Frontier Research
Prescient Design in Genentech Research & Early Development (gRED)

CIFAR Fellow of Learning in Machines & Brains
(former CIFAR Azrieli Global Scholar)

Associate Member of the National Academy of Engineering of Korea

Twitter: @kchonyc

Bio: Kyunghyun Cho is a professor of computer science and data science at New York University and a senior director of frontier research at the Prescient Design team within Genentech Research & Early Development (gRED). He is also a CIFAR Fellow of Learning in Machines & Brains and an Associate Member of the National Academy of Engineering of Korea. He served as a (co-)Program Chair of ICLR 2020, NeurIPS 2022 and ICML 2022. He is also a founding co-Editor-in-Chief of the Transactions on Machine Learning Research (TMLR). He was a research scientist at Facebook AI Research from June 2017 to May 2020 and a postdoctoral fellow at University of Montreal until Summer 2015 under the supervision of Prof. Yoshua Bengio, after receiving MSc and PhD degrees from Aalto University April 2011 and April 2014, respectively, under the supervision of Prof. Juha Karhunen, Dr. Tapani Raiko and Dr. Alexander Ilin. He received the Samsung Ho-Am Prize in Engineering in 2021. He tries his best to find a balance among machine learning, natural language processing, and life, but almost always fails to do so.

Academic Background
D.Sc., Aalto University School of Science, 2014
Thesis: Foundations and Advances in Deep Learning
M.Sc. with distinction, Aalto University School of Science, 2011
Programme: Master’s Programme in Machine Learning and Data Mining (MACADAMIA)
Thesis: Improved Learning Algorithms for Restricted Boltzmann Machines
B.Sc., Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, 2009
Major: Computer Science
Search for:
MENU
About me
Contact
Pro Bono
Lecture Notes
Talks
Courses
Research Activites
Research Group
Disclosure
Acknowledgement
RECENT POSTS
Continued musing on DPO
Fixing DPO but I have a dinner reservation …
A random thought on retrieval-augmented generation
Gradient-based planning, mapping and execution
Gradient-based trajectory planning
BLOG POSTS
News
Personal
Research
Uncategorized
META
Log in
Entries feed
Comments feed
WordPress.org
Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Gist by Candid Themes.

