Professor: Lan Wang
University: University of Memphis
URL: https://www.memphis.edu/cs/people/faculty_pages/lan-wang.php
Description: Skip to main content
Search
Menu
DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE
About
News & Events
Future Students
Current Students
Research
People
Outreach
Giving
Canvas
umMail
myMemphis
Directories
Apply
Visit
Safety & Security
Give
Contact

PEOPLE
FULL-TIME FACULTY
AFFILIATE FACULTY
PART-TIME INSTRUCTORS
STAFF
POSTDOCTORAL FELLOWS & RESEARCHERS
DEPARTMENT ADVISORY BOARD
RETIRED FACULTY
ALUMNI
TAKE ACTION
CAREER PATHS
DEGREE PROGRAMS
COURSES
CONTACT US
FOLLOW US ONLINE
Facebook
LinkedIn
Home
Computer Science 
People 
Faculty Pages 
Lan Wang
Lan Wang
Dunavant Professor (on Temporary Assignment at NSF as Program Director)
PHONE
901.678.1643
EMAIL
lanwang@memphis.edu
FAX
901.678.1506
OFFICE
Dunn Hall 133/321
OFFICE HOURS
Call for hours

 

Degree:
PhD, Computer Science, University of California, Los Angeles, 2004

Research Interests:
Internet architecture, network security, wireless sensor networks

Personal Website:
http://www.cs.memphis.edu/~lanwang/

Google Scholar

Dr. Wang joined the Department in Fall 2004 after finishing her PhD at UCLA. She was promoted to Associate Professor in 2010 and to Full Professor in 2016. She served as the department chair from Feb. 2016 to Aug. 2023. Her research focuses on improving the scalability, reliability, and security of the Internet. She has received multiple major research grants from NSF, NIST, and DoD as well as several grants from the university. Most recently, she is on a team that received over $15 million from NSF for their "Named Data Networking" project.

At the University of Memphis, Dr. Wang has taught a variety of courses including Networking and Information Assurance, Advanced Computer Networks, Wireless and Mobile Computing, Models of Computation, Web Services and the Internet, and Data Structures.

As an active member of the research community, she has served on the program committee of more than 50 conferences and workshops. She is also interested in promoting female participation in computer science, co-organizing a "Networking Networking Women" panel at ACM SIGCOMM 2008 and an N2Women dinner at ACM SIGCOMM 2019. She started and has been advising the Women in Computing student chapter at the university.

Dr. Wang is an IEEE Senior Member.  She received the Early Career Research Award from the College of Arts and Sciences (2010), Alumni Association Distinguished Research Award in Science, Engineering, and Mathematics (2019), Dunavant Profesship (2021), and Willard R. Sparks Eminent Faculty Award (2022) from the University of Memphis.

Admissions

Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour

Academics

Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
Canvas

Athletics

gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media

Research

Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research

Support UofM

Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations

Administrative Support

President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology
Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation
 

Follow UofM Online

University of Memphis Instagram page
University of Memphis Facebook page
University of Memphis Twitter page
University of Memphis Youtube page
University of Memphis LinkedIn page
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright © 2023 The University of Memphis
Important Notice
Last Updated: 7/8/24
The University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000
Web Accessibility Assistance

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 

The University of Memphis uses cookies in order to enhance your website experience. Visit our Website’s Cookie Policy for more information on how the UofM uses cookies. I understand that by clicking “I agree” and/or continuing to use this website, I agree to the UofM’s use of cookies. More information >

I Agree

