Professor: Lars Ruthotto
University: Emory University
URL: https://www.math.emory.edu/~lruthot
Description: Lars Ruthotto
Home
Research
Teaching
Activities
Team
Talks
Publications
Contact
CV
Lars Ruthotto
Winship Distinguished Research Associate Professor of Mathematics and Computer Science
Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA
Biography

I am an applied mathematician developing computational methods for machine learning and inverse problems. I am a Winship Distinguished Research Associate Professor in the Department of Mathematics and the Department of Computer Science at Emory University and a member of Emory’s Scientific Computing Group. I lead the Emory REU/RET site for Computational Mathematics for Data Science. Prior to joining Emory, I was a postdoc at the University of British Columbia and I held PhD positions at the University of Lübeck and the University of Münster.

I received an NSF CAREER award and am also supported by grants from the US Department of Energy’s Advanced Scientific Computing Research program, the Air Force Office of Scientific Research, and contracts by Sandia National Laboratories. Previously, I was supported by the US Israeli Binational Science Foundation, and the Centers for Disease Control.

Interests
Scientific Computing
Optimization
Machine Learning
Inverse Problems
Image Registration
Education

PhD in Mathematics, 2012

University of Münster, Germany

Diploma in Mathematics, 2010

University of Münster, Germany

Research

My research and teaching sit at the intersection of applied mathematics and data science, particularly deep learning and inverse problems.

In deep learning, I seek to create new insights and efficient training for continuous models based on ordinary and partial differential equations. I also develop machine learning approaches for solving high-dimensional partial differential equations and optimal control problems and am interested in connections to active and reinforcement learning.

In inverse problems, I have been working on using generative modeling for inference. Over the years, I have been working on applications in image registration and reconstruction and computational techniques including optimal experimental design, uncertainty quantification, numerical optimization, multiscale and multigrid methods, and regularization. Over the years, I had many fruitful collaborations with domain-experts from public health, geophysics, and medical imaging.

Teaching

I offer regular one-semester courses in applied mathematics as well as advanced courses, seminars, and workshops in my research area. As part of my NSF CAREER project, I have also developed a new graduate-level course on Numerical Methods for Deep Learning. I offered this class twice at Emory and gave short versions of the class at TU Berlin, University of Chemnitz, and Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa. I also taught a short short course on Deep Generative Modeling as part of the Spring School on Data and Models at the University of South Carolina.

In the academic year 2023-24, I am offering our Honors Linear Algebra and Vector Calculus sequence. With these courses I seek to fast track some of our freshmen with the strongest mathematics background for upper level courses and research.

You can find my past courses here.

Selected Activities

Vice-Chair, SIAM Activity Group on Data Science, since January 2022

Section Editor for Machine Learning Methods for Scientific Computing for SIAM Journal on Scientific Computing (SISC)

Associate editor, SIAM Review (SIREV) Research Spotlight Section

Program Committee Member, SIAM Conference on Uncertainty Quantification, February 27 - March 1, 2024 in Trieste, Italy

Organizing Committee Co-Chair, SIAM Conference on Mathematics of Data Science (MDS22), September 26-30, 2022 in San Diego, CA, USA.

Chair of Selection Committee, SIAM Activity Group on Supercomputing Career Prize 2022

Member of Selection Committee, SIAM Activity Group on Linear Algebra Early Career Prize 2021

Program Committee, Conference on Mathematical and Scientific Machine Learning (MSML), 2019-21

Senior Fellow, IPAM Long program on Machine Learning for Physics and the Physics of Learning, Fall 2019.

Secretary, SIAM Activity Group on Imaging Science, 2018-19

Senior Consultant, xtract.ai Technologies Inc., 2017-19

Team
Deepanshu Verma Distinguished Visiting Assistant Professor, since Sept. 2021
Nicole Yang Distinguished Visiting Assistant Professor, since Sept. 2022
Kelvin Kan, Distinguished Visiting Assistant Professor, since Sept. 2023
Abigail Julian, Computer Science and Informatics PhD, since Jan. 2020
Malvern Madondo, Computer Science and Informatics PhD, since Jan. 2020
Xingjian Li, Computational Mathematics PhD, since Sept. 2020
Haley Rosso, Computational Mathematics PhD, since Jan 2022
Selected Recent Talks
Click here for more talks.
How to Train Better: Exploiting the Separability of DNNs
invited talk at the Workshop on Dynamics and Discretization at the Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing
Oct 29, 2021 10:45 AM
Elizabeth Newman, Lars Ruthotto
Slides Video
A Machine Learning Framework for Mean Field Games and Optimal Control
invited talk at the 2021 Annual Meeting of the Canadian Applied and Industrial Mathematics Society CAIMS
Jun 21, 2021 3:31 PM
Machine Learning meets Partial Differential Equations
invited plenary talk at the joint SIAM/CAIMS Annual Meeting (AN20)
Jul 6, 2020 5:00 PM
PDF Video
Selected Publications
Click here for more publications.
 Elizabeth Newman, Lars Ruthotto (2022). hessQuik: Fast Hessian computation of composite functions. The Journal of Open Source Software.

PDF Cite Code DOI

 Derek Onken, Levon Nurbekyan, Xingjian Li, Samy Wu Fung, Stanley Osher, Lars Ruthotto (2022). A Neural Network Approach for High-Dimensional Optimal Control Applied to Multi-Agent Path Finding. IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology.

Preprint Cite Code DOI

 Kelvin Kan, François-Xavier Aubet, Tim Januschowski, Youngsuk Park, Konstantinos Benidis, Lars Ruthotto, Jan Gasthaus (2022). Multivariate Quantile Function Forecaster. 25th International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics (AISTATS).

PDF Cite

 Elizabeth Newman, Julianne Chung, Matthias Chung, Lars Ruthotto (2021). slimTrain - A Stochastic Approximation Method for Training Separable Deep Neural Networks. arxiv.org.

Preprint Cite

 Lars Ruthotto, Eldad Haber (2021). An Introduction to Deep Generative Modeling. GAMM Mitteilungen.

Preprint Cite DOI

 Lars Ruthotto, Stanley J Osher, Wuchen Li, Levon Nurbekyan, Samy Wu Fung (2020). A machine learning framework for solving high-dimensional mean field game and mean field control problems. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.

Preprint Cite Code DOI

 Lars Ruthotto, Eldad Haber (2020). Deep neural networks motivated by partial differential equations. Journal of Mathematical Imaging and Vision.

Preprint PDF Cite DOI

 Eldad Haber, Lars Ruthotto (2017). Stable architectures for deep neural networks. Inverse Problems.

Preprint PDF Cite DOI

Contact
lruthotto@emory.edu
400 Dowman Drive, Atlanta, GA 30322
Office W408, located in the 4th floor in the Math and Science Center
By appointment (please email me)
+
−
Leaflet | © OpenStreetMap

© Lars Ruthotto 2024

