Professor: Lawrence Birnbaum
University: Northwestern University
URL: http://www.mccormick.northwestern.edu/research-faculty/directory/profiles/birnbaum-larry.html
Description: NEWS & EVENTS
CONTACT & VISIT
INFO FOR
Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Companies
Search this site
Search
ABOUT
Overview
Discover our philosophy rooted in whole-brain thinking.
Leadership
Meet our deans, chairs, school leaders, and advisory council.
Departments & Institutes
Explore our academic departments, centers, and institutes that provide many opportunities for cross-disciplinary collaboration.
Facilities
View our facilities located in several connected buildings on the Evanston campus, plus a space in San Francisco.
Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion
See McCormick’s commitment that all students, faculty, and staff are welcome, respected, and able to fully engage in our community.
History
View our growth and timeline since the school was established in 1909.
Learn what it means to become a whole-brain engineer.

It takes a different way of thinking to connect disparate fields, put big ideas into action, and imagine what’s next.
LEARN MORE

ACADEMICS
Academics Overview
Explore our degrees, programs, courses, and other enrichment opportunities.
All Areas of Study
View a chart of all study areas cross-categorized by degree type.
Undergraduate Study
Explore majors, minors, student groups, research, enrichment, and support opportunities. Plan your visit to campus and start your application.
Graduate Study
Explore our full-time and part-time master's and PhD offerings and learn how to apply.
Departments and Programs
See a list of all academic departments and professional programs.
Apply to Northwestern Engineering
Learn more about the application process for your program of interest.
QUICK LINKS
Undergraduate Student Resources
Undergraduate Advising
Graduate Student Resources
Academic Integrity
Graduation Information
RESEARCH & FACULTY
Research Areas and Centers
View our interdisciplinary research centers, programs, and collaborations.
Faculty Directory
Meet our award-winning faculty, including several national academy members.
FACULTY FINDER
Search
OFFICES & SERVICES
Office of the Dean
Strategic vision and leadership
Administration, Finance, Facilities, & Planning
Infrastructure support including: finance, HR, facilities/space/safety
Alumni Relations & Development
School-level giving, including annual, estate, and memorial giving
Career Development
Career support including: Cooperative Education (Co-op), internships, service learning, and research
Corporate Engagement
Industry connections and partnerships
Customer Service Center
Reimbursements, office moves, lab, renovations, research appointments, and more
Faculty Affairs
Liaison between engineering faculty and the Provost's Office
Global Initiatives
Opportunities and resources to engage in global scholarly activity
Graduate Studies
MS and PhD student recruitment, admittance, and enrollment
Information Technology
Computer and technology support
Marketing & Communications
Promotion of school activities and consistent brand messaging
McCormick Advising System
Undergraduate student advising
Personal Development StudioLab
Student assistance with both their academic and extracurricular lives
Professional Education
Support for master's degree programs geared toward working or transitioning professionals
Research Offices
Faculty support in pursing/managing external funding for research
Undergraduate Engineering
Operations and administrative support for students and faculty
QUICK LINKS
Academic Departments
Facilities
Lost and Found
Faculty & Staff Resources
IN THIS SECTION
Research and Faculty
Faculty Directory
Faculty Fellows
FACULTY DIRECTORY
Larry Birnbaum

Professor of Computer Science

Contact
2233 Tech Drive
Mudd Room 3225
Evanston, IL 60208-3109


847-491-3640
Email Larry Birnbaum
Departments

Computer Science

Affiliations

Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence

Download CV

Education

Ph.D. Computer Science, Yale University, New Haven, CT

M.S. Computer Science, Yale University, New Haven, CT

B.S. Computer Science, Yale University, New Haven, CT



Research Interests

Larry Birnbaum's research and teaching focus on applied AI and human-AI collaboration. He and his students develop, study, and apply new technologies in natural language processing (NLP), conversational interfaces, intelligent information systems, social media data analytics, machine learning, and computational journalism and media. Key areas of research include methods for the automatic generation of content by machine, including specifically the automatic generation of narratives from data, and on natural human-AI collaboration using conversational interaction. Larry's research also spans intelligent information systems, including models of automatic and contextual search and information diversity; preference predication and recommendation using social media data; and applications of AI to journalism and media.



Selected Publications

Allen, N., Templon, J., McNally, P., Birnbaum, L., and Hammond, K.  Statsmonkey: Automatic generation of narrative from data.  Computational Models of Narrative: Papers from the 2010 AAAI Fall Symposium, Arlington, VA, 2010.




Boon, M., and Birnbaum, L.  Identifying “horse race” stories in election news.  Proceedings of the 2019 ACM International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces, Los Angeles, CA, 2019.




Bursztyn, V., and Birnbaum, L.  Thousands of small, constant rallies: A large-scale analysis of partisan WhatsApp groups.  Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE/ACM Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining, Vancouver, B.C., Canada, 2019.




Bursztyn, V., Healey, J., Koh, E., Lipka, N., and Birnbaum, L. Developing a conversational system for recommending limited options. Proceedings of the 2021 ACM CHI Conference, Yokohama, Japan, 2021.




Bursztyn, V., Healey, J., Lipka, N., Koh, E., Downey, D., and Birnbaum, L. “It doesn’t look good for a date”: Transforming critiques into preferences for conversational recommendation systems. Proceedings of the 2021 ACL Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, 2021.




Bursztyn, V., Demeter, D., Downey, D., and Birnbaum, L. Learning to perform complex tasks through compositional fine-tuning of language models. Findings of the 2022 ACL Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, Abu Dhabi, UAE, 2022.




Cohn, J., Kuntz, A, and Birnbaum, L.  AttitudeBuzz: Using social media data to localize complex attitudes.  Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining, Paris, France, 2015.




Gomez-Zara, D., Boon, M., and Birnbaum, L.  Who is the hero, the villain, and the victim? Detection of roles in news articles using natural language techniques.  Proceedings of the 2018 ACM International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces, Tokyo, Japan, 2018.




Noraset, T., Liang, C., Birnbaum, L., and Downey, D.  Definition modeling: Learning to define word embeddings in natural language.  Proceedings of the 31st AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, San Francisco, CA, 2017.




O’Banion, S., and Birnbaum, L.  Using explicit linguistic expressions of preference in social media to predict voting behavior.  Proceedings of the 2013 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining, Niagara Falls, Canada, 2013.  (Best paper award.)




 
BACK TO TOP
Northwestern Seal

McCormick School of Engineering,  Northwestern University

Technological Institute, 2145 Sheridan Road, Evanston, IL 60208

view all contact info

AdmissionsFaculty DirectoryGive to McCormickTech Room Finder / MapsEmergency InformationNorthwestern HomeTech Lost and FoundReport an Accessibility Issue
McCormick on twitterMcCormick on facebookMcCormick on linkedinMcCormick on instagramMcCormick on youtube
© 2024  Robert R. McCormick School of Engineering and Applied Science, Northwestern University  Disclaimer

