Professor: Leah Findlater
University: University of Washington
URL: http://faculty.washington.edu/leahkf
Description: Leah Findlater
Home
CV
Publications
Contact

HCDE
Room 416, Sieg Hall
University of Washington
Seattle, WA 98195

leahkf at uw edu

Prospective Students

I am looking for motivated students who share my goal of lowering barriers to technology use. If this sounds like you, please consider applying to the HCDE PhD program.

News

Not updated.

Sep 2017 I joined Human Centered Design and Engineering at UW.

Aug 2017 With colleagues at CMU and UMD, we received an NSF EAGER to study techniques to support language interpreters using heads-up displays.

Feb 2017 Google Faculty Research Award with Jon Froehlich to study wearable sound awareness technology for users who are deaf and hard of hearing

Dec 2016 Congrats to Uran Oh on successfully defending her dissertation! Uran is now at CMU.

About Me

I'm an associate professor in Human Centered Design and Engineering at the University of Washington. I'm also an adjunct associate professor in Computer Science and Engineering, an affiliate professor in Disability Studies, and an associate director of UW CREATE (Center for Research and Education on Accessible Technology and Experiences).

My research goal is to ensure that the next generation of computing technologies is accessible to everyone. I am interested in how to create technologies that adapt to accommodate individual user needs and preferences, whether to improve basic interactions such as touchscreen text entry or more complex tasks such as working with machine learning models. I conduct mixed methods research, from controlled lab studies to qualitative interviews and field deployments.

I received my PhD in Computer Science from the University of British Columbia. Before joining HCDE, I was as an assistant professor at the University of Maryland's College of Information Studies, and I spent two years as an NSERC Postdoctoral Fellow at the UW Information School. I received an NSF CAREER Award in 2014. My research has been funded by NSF, the Department of Defense, Microsoft, Google, Mozilla, Adobe, and Nokia.

Research

My research group, the Inclusive Design Lab, is an interdisciplinary team of students from Human Centered Design and Engineering, Information Studies, and Computer Science & Engineering.




 

Updated February 2021.

