Professor: Lillian Lee
University: Cornell University
URL: http://www.cs.cornell.edu/home/llee
Description: Lillian Lee

Charles Roy Davis Professor (having previously assisted and associated)
Department of Computer Science and Department of Information Science
A.B. Cornell 1993, math and computer science; Ph.D. Harvard 1997, computer science.
 


The crudest curriculum vitae crows and flaps its wings in a style peculiar to the undersigner. I doubt whether you can even give your telephone number without giving something of yourself.
–Nabokov, Nikolai Gogol

Research, professional activities, and recognition
Research summary
Groups: my students :: NLP :: machine learning :: AI
Papers: includes links to associated talk slides, data, etc.
Other talk slides
 

Awards, press, offices, editorial boards, outreach, etc.
Interested in doing research with me or other NLP faculty?
Cornell undergraduate/MEng/MS students seeking research/project positions:
I'm tracking interest among Cornell ugrad/masters students who might want to work with me or potentially other NLP faculty now or in the future. Please visit this Google form (requires Cornell Google Workspace login) for info about my availability and to tell me about your background, preparation, and interests!
See also the ACSU's guide on how to find a research position (you'll need to click on the "Research" tab), the CS's dept's page on undergrad research, ACSU's semesterly research night where prospective undergraduate researchers can meet doctoral students and forge potential collaborations [spring 2024 event is Mon Mar 4], the Psych department's internships google group (you'll need to request permission to join)
Prospective graduate students:
I'm really sorry to not be able to respond to individual inquiries, because I'm trying to devote as much time as I can to my current Cornell students. But please don't take my lack of response as lack of interest! I've had to settle on a blanket policy of not answering any such emails — but I do try to read them all.
Cornell-external students seeking internships/visiting positions and people inquiring after postdocs:
I don't have any research positions available for you anywhere between spring 2024 to summer 2026 inclusive (in part due to upcoming sabbatical), and I am unable to join any external thesis committees for the foreseeable future, due to my commitments to my current students. I am sorry, and I realize that this situation means that I am missing out on the opportunity to work with some fantastic people.

My policies regarding requests for letters of evaluation for tenure/promotion
(undergrads/masters/PhD students: to be clear, this section does not apply to you!)
I decline requests from institutions that do not offer strong confidentiality promises, so as to feel more empowered to be candid in my letters.
I decline requests for "third-year review"-like letters, meaning those that are for promotion but without tenure. Reason: to reserve sufficient time for letters regarding tenure cases.
I would strongly prefer that candidates not contact me beforehand regarding my availability to write a letter, and reserve the right not to answer such queries. I understand this can put candidates in an awkward position when they are advised to make such pre-contacts by their institution, and I am sorry for that; I'm providing this public statement as protection for candidates in that case.
But I would prefer to be able to state, should/as I write such letters, that I was not contacted by the candidate or did not promise the candidate anything, so as to provide more evidence of impartiality.
Contact and availability info

Office hours: It's summer!

Actual coordinates: 419 Gates Hall; email address: see the Engineering faculty directory page; phone: 607-255-8119; fax: 607-255-9143
Mailing address is Cornell University, Department of Computer Science, 419 Gates Hall, Ithaca, NY 14853
Street address is 107 Hoy Road
Administrative assistant: Lacy Jordaens, see the CUCS staff page for contact info.

Courses
Fall 2024: CS 4701, Practicum in Artificial Intelligence [roster entry, including pre-enollment info in the link labelled "Syllabi"]
Both fall and spring: NLP seminar


Selected past courses:
Natural language processing and social interaction (CS/IS 6742) SP24, F21, F17, F15 w/ Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil

Advanced language technologies (CS6740): S23, F19 (TAGs, CCGs, deconstructing datasets, semantic representations), F07 (a generally quite strong set of student-authored lecture guides with problems), S10 (fancy tabbing navigation using javascript, updated references), S02 (no IR), S01 (short course)

Natural language processing (CS4740/COGST4740/CS5740/LING4474): F23, F22 w/ Marten van Schijndel)
Machine learning and data science (CS5786) S15 w/ Karthik Sridharan)



Introduction to computing using Python (CS1110): SP22 w/ Anne Bracy, SP21 and SP20 w/ Daisy Fan; SP18 w/ Anne Bracy; SP17 w/ Erik Andersen; SP16 w/ Charlie Van Loan; SP14 w/ Steve Marschner); Introduction to computing using Java (CS1110, F10 w/ David Gries)
Computation, information, and intelligence (CS 1700, aka 172, S07)
Honors introduction to the theory of computing (CS481, F98, F99, F00)
Other stuff
News flash: female computer-science professor good with computers
Saw the Scotch tape, forewent the Nobel Prize
It's Not Easy Being Green; or: You Can Have Both Great Stage Presence and Great Stage Fright, And Your Own Rosemary's Baby, To Boot



Some highlights regarding Cornell and/or the Cornell computer science department
Advice other people have told me is useful (I don't necessarily agree with everything said): SUNY Oswego Honors program: How to do really well in college;   CRA site on research opportunities and grad school


I'm not from Iowa.
Nor am I the bread and the knife.
Or Michiko Kakutani.
No Pinot Grigio for me, buddy.

