Professor: Luis Ceze
University: University of Washington
URL: https://www.cs.washington.edu/people/faculty/luisceze
Description: Skip to main content
	
	
MyCSE
Internal
Calendar
Directory
Helpful Links
Computing
CSE Course List
Time/Teaching Schedules
Academic Calendars
UW Homepage
About Us
Contact Us
 
 Quick Links
NEWS & EVENTS
 
PEOPLE
 
ACADEMICS
 
RESEARCH & INNOVATION
 
OUTREACH
 
SUPPORT #UWALLEN
 
APPLY!
Luis Ceze
Contact
Luis Ceze
CSE 576
206-543-1896
luiscezecs.washington.edu
Computer Architecture, Computer Systems & Networking, Molecular Programming & Synthetic Biology, Programming Languages & Software Engineering
Areas of interest: 

Computer architecture, machine learning systems, programming languages, energy-efficient computing, molecular storage and computing.

Biography
Research
Publications
Students
Personal

Luis Ceze, Professor, joined the  Computer Science and Engineering faculty in 2007.  His research focuses on the intersection of computer architecture, programming languages, machine learning (see the SAMPA and SAMPL research groups) and molecular biology. He recently started exploring using biology to make better computers (see the MISL page). Visit his other other webpage. 

He has several papers selected as IEEE Micro Top Picks and CACM research Highlights. He participated in the Blue Gene, Cyclops, and PERCS projects at IBM. He is a recipient of an NSF CAREER Award, a Sloan Research Fellowship and a Microsoft Research Faculty Fellowship, and the 2013 IEEE TCCA Young Computer Architect Award. He is also a member of the DARPA ISAT and MEC advisory groups. 

He co-founded Corensic a decade ago, and most recently OctoML, both UW CSE spin-off companies. 

His research is generously supported by Microsoft, Intel, Google, Oracle, NetApp, Qualcomm, NSF, and DARPA. 

He was born in São Paulo, Brazil,  where it drizzles all the time, just like Seattle. He received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and his B.Eng. and M.Eng. in Electrical Engineering from University of São Paulo, Brazil. In his "free" time, he is often seen eating and cooking.  

 Take a look at the collectively written white-paper on 21st Century computer architecture research, and a vision for the next 15 years of architecture research.

Take a look at Apache TVM, our end-to-end stack for deep learning - tvm.ai.

Check out the videos from his Hardware/Software Interface class.

CONNECT WITH #UWALLEN

  

Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering
University of Washington

Main Administrative Offices:
Paul G. Allen Center, Box 352350
185 E Stevens Way NE
Seattle, WA 98195-2350
Directions

Student Services:
Bill & Melinda Gates Center, Box 352355
3800 E Stevens Way NE
Seattle, WA 98195-2355

Contact us:
Main Tel: (206) 543-1695
Media Inquiries: media at cs.washington.edu
Webmaster: support at cs.washington.edu


Undergraduate Advising: ugrad-adviser at cs.washington.edu
Undergraduate Outreach & Recruitment: outreach at cs.washington.edu
Professional Master's Program Advising: masters at cs.washington.edu
Graduate (Ph.D.) Advising: grad-advising at cs.washington.edu




Computer Engineering degree program accredited by ABET

Copyright © 2017-2021 University of Washington - Seattle - Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering | All Rights | Privacy | Terms

Drupal Login (not the general-purpose CSE login)

