Professor: Manish Parashar
University: University of Utah
URL: https://www.sci.utah.edu/people/parashar.html
Description: SCI Home
 
The Institute 
 
Research 
 
Centers 
 
Media 
 
Publications 
 
Software 
 
People 
 
Opportunities 
 
Internal
 
Search
Dr. Manish Parashar - Director & Chair in Computational Science and Engineering
parashar@sci.utah.edu
Personal Home Page
Background
Manish received a BE degree in Electronics and Telecommunications from Bombay University, India, and MS and Ph.D. degrees in Computer Engineering from Syracuse University.
Current Responsibilities
Presidential Professor, School of Computing, The University of Utah
Chair in Computational Science and Engineering, Scientific Computing and Imaging (SCI) Institute
Faculty Director, Data Science & Ethics of Technology Initiative (DATASET), One-Utah Data Science Hub
Visiting Professor, Department of Computer Science, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Founding Chair, IEEE Community on High-Performance Computing (TCHPC)
Research Interests
Computational and Data-Enabled Science and Engineering, Parallel & Distributed Computing (HPC, Cloud and Grid Computing)
Extreme-scale Computing and Data Management, Autonomic Computing
Short Bio:
Manish Parashar is Director of the Scientific Computing and Imaging (SCI) Institute, Chair in Computational Science and Engineering, and Presidential Professor, Kalhert School of Computing at the University of Utah. He very recently completed an IPA appointment at the National Science Foundation where he served as Office Director of the NSF Office of Advanced Cyberinfrastructure, as well as co-chair of the National Science and Technology Council’s Subcommittee on the Future Advanced Computing Ecosystem and the National Artificial Intelligence Research Resource Task Force (NAIRR). Manish’s research interests are in the broad areas of Parallel and Distributed Computing and Computational and Data-Enabled Science and Engineering and has published extensively in these areas. He has also deployed software systems that are widely used. Manish is the founding chair of the IEEE Technical Consortium on High Performance Computing (TCHPC) and serves on the editorial boards and organizing committees of a number of journals and international conferences and workshops. He has received several awards for his research and leadership, including the 2023 Achievement Award in High Performance Distributed Computing. He is Fellow of AAAS, ACM, and IEEE/IEEE Computer Society. For more information, please visit http://manishparashar.org.

Scientific Computing and Imaging Institute
72 S Central Campus Drive, Room 3750
Salt Lake City, UT 84112
Phone: 801-585-1867
Fax: 801-585-6513
LOGIN | ADMIN
COPYRIGHT © 1998 - 2024 SCIENTIFIC COMPUTING AND IMAGING INSTITUTE
SCI

