Professor: Mark Dredze
University: Johns Hopkins University
URL: http://www.cs.jhu.edu/~mdredze
Description: Home Publications Group Teaching Code Data Demos News Prospective Students Book
Home

I am the John C Malone Professor of Computer Science at Johns Hopkins University. I am the (Interim) Deputy Director for the JHU Data Science and AI Institute and the Associate Head of Research and Strategic Initiatives for the Department of Computer Science.

Speaker bio and photo

Research Interests

My research develops statistical models of language with applications to social media analysis, public health and clinical informatics.
Keywords: Natural Language Processing, Machine Learning, Health Informatics, Clinical NLP, Computational Epidemiology

How to be a Successful PhD Student

Hanna Wallach and I wrote a guide on How to be a Successful PhD Student. It’s geared for PhD students in general, but focuses on CS, machine learning and NLP students.

I wrote a book!

Michael Paul and I wrote a book on social media and public health. The book provides an introduction to the field for public health practitioners, computer scientists and data scientists.

“I want to work with you.”

Great! Please contact me if you are a JHU student. It is probably helpful if you’ve taken natural language, machine learning or artificial intelligence. If you are interested in becoming a JHU student you can read details here.

“How do you pronounce your last name?”

Spelled: Dredze, Pronounced: Dredzee

Education

Northwestern University: BS in Computer Science, BS in Computer Engineering
Yeshiva University: MA in Jewish Studies
University of Pennsylvania: PhD in Computer Science (Adviser: Fernando Pereira)

Industry

Microsoft: Summer intern
IBM TJ Watson Research Center: Summer intern
Google Research: Summer Intern
Bloomberg LP: Sabbatical

Links
NACLO at JHU (faculty adviser)
Mid-Atlantic Student Colloquium on Speech, Language and Learning (MASC-SLL) (founder and faculty advisor)
Email Research Website
Mark Dredze

John C Malone Professor, Computer Science
Associate Head of Research and Strategic Initiatives, Computer Science
(Interim) Deputy Directory, JHU Data Science and AI Institute
Johns Hopkins University

 

Email: mdredze@cs.jhu.edu
Office: Malone 339
Phone: (410) 516-6786
ORCID: 0000-0002-0422-2474
Google Scholar Profile
Twitter: @mdredze

NEWS
June 27, 2024
I was a panelist at the Federal Reserve Bank's Workshop on Credit Card Lending, Consumer Finance and the AI Revolution.

June 24, 2024
I was a panelist at the NIH National Library of Medicine Workshop on AI for Improving Health Equity.

June 5, 2024
I was a panelist at the Forum on Engineered AI Systems hosted by Johns Hopkins University and the Forum on Complex Unifiable Systems at the National Academy of Engineering.

June 3, 2024
I gave a keynote talk at the IEEE International Conference on Healthcare Informatics, Workshop on Applying LLMs in LMICs for Healthcare Solutions.

June 3, 2024
I gave a seminar to the Johns Hopkins Center on Aging & Health.

More News
AFFILIATIONS

Malone Center for Engineering in Healthcare
Human Language Technology Center of Excellence (HLTCOE)
Center for Language and Speech Processing (CLSP)
Machine Learning Group
Center for Population Health Information Technology (CPHIT), Bloomberg
Biomedical Informatics & Data Science Section (BIDS), School of Medicine
Social Media and Health Research Group
Social Media for Public Health
Institute for Global Tobacco Control
Center for Gun Violence Prevention and Policy
Human-Computer Interaction Group
Mathematical Institute for Data Science
Data Science and AI Institute

 
© 2024 Mark Dredze | John C Malone Professor • Johns Hopkins University

