Professor: Martin C. Rinard
University: Massachusetts Institute of Technology
URL: http://people.csail.mit.edu/rinard
Description: Martin Rinard
Martin C. Rinard

Dr. Rinard is a Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a member of the Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory. His research focuses on software systems and related topics, including computer security, program analysis and compilation, machine learning and programming, approximate computing, and software robustness and reliability.

Dr. Rinard's research has been recognized with many honors and awards. His students and postdocs have gone on to top positions in academia and industry.

Highlights
Approximate Computing	Code Transfer	Genesis
Acceptability-Oriented Computing	Credible Compilation	Prophet
Parallel Computing	Loop Perforation	Arco
Biographical Sketch
Press
Publications
Research
People
Teaching
Honors and Awards
CV
Contact Information
Selected News Articles
Selected Research Papers
Crayon

The science of colour is upending our relationship with screens

Wired
Crayon: Saving Power through Shape and Color Approximation on Next-Generation Displays

Phillip Stanley-Marbell, Virginia Estellers, Martin Rinard
Proceedings of EuroSys 2016
London, UK April 2016

Automatic bug repair

System fixes bugs by importing functionality from other programs – without access to source code.

MIT News
Fortune
SlashDot
ComputerWorld
The Register
Christian Science Monitor
Automatic Error Elimination by Horizontal Code Transfer Across Multiple Applications

Stelios Sidiroglou-Douskos, Eric Lahtinen, Fan Long, and Martin Rinard
Proceedings of the 36th ACM SIGPLAN Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation (PLDI 2015)
Portland, Oregon, June 2015

When good enough is better

By exploiting a simple but counterintuitive trick, a new system finds sections of computer programs where accuracy can be traded for speed.

MIT News
Quality of Service Profiling

Sasa Misailovic, Stelios Sidiroglou, Henry Hoffmann, and Martin C. Rinard
Proceedings of the ACM/IEEE 32nd International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE 2010)
Cape Town, South Africa, May 2010

Harnessing error-prone chips

New system would allow programmers to easily trade computational accuracy for energy savings.

MIT News
Chisel: Reliability- and Accuracy-Aware Optimization of Approximate Computational Kernels (Best Paper Award)

Sasa Misailovic, Michael Carbin, Sara Achour, Zichao Qi, and Martin Rinard
Proceedings of the 2014 ACM SIGPLAN International Conference on Object-Oriented Programming, Systems, Languages, and Applications (OOPSLA 2014)
Portland, Oregon, October 2014

Analog computing returns

New analog compiler could help enable simulation of whole organs and even organisms.

MIT News
TechCrunch
Digital Trends
Configuration Synthesis for Programmable Analog Devices with Arco

Sara Achour, Rahul Sarpeshkar, and Martin Rinard
Proceedings of the 37th ACM SIGPLAN Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation (PLDI 2016)
Santa Barbara, CA, June 2016

Recognizing correct code

Automatic bug-repair system fixes 10 times as many errors as its predecessors.

MIT News
PCWorld
ComputerWorld
Automatic Patch Generation by Learning Correct Code

Fan Long and Martin Rinard
Proceedings of the 43rd ACM SIGPLAN-SIGACT Symposium on Principles of Programming Languages (POPL 2016)
St. Petersburg, Florida, January 2016

Writing programs using ordinary language

Systems that can convert written specifications into working code in a few narrow cases could be generalized to other tasks.

MIT News
ScienceDaily
From Natural Language Specifications to Program Input Parsers

Tao Lei, Fan Long, Regina Barzilay, and Martin Rinard
Association For Computational Linguistics 2013
Sofia, Bulgaria, August 2013

Defibrillator for stalled software

A new tool interrupts the "infinite loops" that cause computer hang-ups, letting users save data and finish tasks before restarting a stalled program.

MIT News
Slashdot
ArsTechnica
Detecting and Escaping Infinite Loops with Jolt

Michael Carbin, Sasa Misailovic, Michael Kling, and Martin Rinard
25th European Conference on Object-Oriented Programming (ECOOP 2011)
Lancaster UK, July 2011

More...

