Professor: Matteo Sesia
University: University of Southern California
URL: https://msesia.github.io/
Description: Matteo Sesia
	
Research
	
Group
	
Teaching
	
CV
	
Publications
	
Software
Matteo Sesia

Statistician and Data Scientist. Assistant Professor at the University of Southern California.

 Los Angeles, CA
 Email
 Github
 Google Scholar
 ORCID
About me

Im an assistant professor in the Department of Data Sciences and Operations at the USC Marshall School of Business I am also honored to hold the Kenneth King Stonier Assistant Professorship in Business Administration, and a secondary appointment as Assistant Professor of Computer Science in the Viterbi School of Engineering.

Prior to joining USC, I earned a PhD in Statistics in 2020 from Stanford University, advised by Emmanuel Candès. I am originally from Italy, where I studied at Politecnico di Torino and Collegio Carlo Alberto.

Research interests

My research primarily focuses on distribution-free statistical inference and uncertainty-aware machine learning. In particular, I am interested in developing powerful non-parametric methods to precisely estimate the uncertainty of predictions computed by deep neural networks or other sophisticated machine learning models, and in developing assumption-lean methods to extract from high-dimensional data reliable knowledge about how a potentially complex outcome depends on a large number of explanatory variables.

Information for potential students and collaborators

I am open to new collaborations, and I have research projects available for highly motivated PhD students. If you are a PhD student at USC, please feel free to email me about possible research opportunities. If you have not yet been admitted to USC, but you are interested in our PhD program, please visit this PhD program information page. Applications to the PhD program are handled by the department through the standard procedure described in the above page.

Sitemap
FOLLOW: GITHUB FEED
© 2024 Matteo Sesia. Powered by Jekyll & AcademicPages, a fork of Minimal Mistakes.

