Professor: Matthew O'Toole
University: Carnegie Mellon University
URL: https://www.ri.cmu.edu/ri-faculty/matthew-otoole
Description: Skip to content
ABOUT
PEOPLE
RESEARCH
EDUCATION
NEWS
EVENTS
NREC
Matthew O’Toole
Assistant Professor
Home Department: RI
Office: 215 Elliot Dunlap Smith Hall
Personal Homepage
Administrative Assistant: Christine Downey
Lab: Computational Imaging at CMU
Mailing Address
Statement
Research
Publications
Students/Affiliates

I am an Assistant Professor with the Robotics Institute and Computer Science Department in the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University. My research interests span many topics across computer graphics and computer vision, but I’m particularly interested in computational imaging: a field that combines optics, electronics, and computational processing to capture or display new forms of visual information.

Prior to joining CMU, I was a Banting Postdoctoral Fellow with Gordon Wetzstein‘s Computational Imaging group at Stanford University. Before that, I received my Ph.D. in Computer Science at the University of Toronto under the supervision of Kyros Kutulakos in 2016, along with an M.Sc. in 2009. I took a break from Toronto in 2011 to be a visiting student with the MIT Media Lab’s Camera Culture group led by Ramesh Raskar. I also completed an undergraduate degree in honours Computer Science and Mathematics from the University of British Columbia in 2007 under the supervision of Abhijeet Ghosh and Wolfgang Heidrich, and worked for various companies including NVIDIA, EA, and MDA.

I spend a lot of time thinking about computational imaging, a field that combines optics, electronics, and processing in new and interesting ways to capture and display visual information. In particular, I’m interested in using programmable lights and cameras to analyze the world around us.

My work was the recipient of a couple of runner-up best paper awards at ICCV 2007 and CVPR 2014, best demo awards at CVPR 2015 and ICCP 2015, and a runner-up dissertation award at SIGGRAPH 2017. I was also a co-oraganizer of the CVPR workshop on Computational Cameras and Displays in 2016 and 2017, and taught a course on the subject at SIGGRAPH 2014. My research is supported by the Banting Postdoctoral Fellowships program administered by the Government of Canada.

Outreach at RI
|
Contact Us
|
Giving
|
RoboGuide
© 2024 The Robotics Institute is part of the School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University. Legal Info
	
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram
LinkedIn

