Professor: Matthew A. Turk
University: TTI Chicago
URL: https://home.ttic.edu/~mturk
Description: 	

Matthew Turk: [ Home ] [ Research ] [ Teaching ] [ Personal pages ] [ Contact Info ]

		

Matthew Turk

President

Toyota Technological Insitute at Chicago (TTIC)

 

Professor Emeritus

University of California, Santa Barbara

 

Research interests: Computer vision and imaging, human-computer interaction, augmented reality, mobile computing, multimodal interaction, artificial intelligence.

Twitter, LinkedIn

	

I'm the President of TTIC, an independent philanthropically endowed graduate research institute that focuses on computer science theory and artificial intelligence. My research interests are in computer vision and human-computer interaction, largely concerned with using computer vision as an input modality. That means using cameras (and other sensors) to perceive relevant information about people and the world and then using this information to improve the interface between humans and computers. In recent years, many of the applications have been in augmented reality, and mostly focused on real-time mobile computing environments.

	

 

Info

	

Links




Four Eyes Lab

Info for Students

Research and Publications

Teaching

Short Bio

Contact Information

Random Musings

	

TTIC
Books
Vision-Based Interaction (with Gang Hua)
Advanced Methods and Deep Learning in Computer Vision (with Roy Davies)
Computer Vision: Challenges, Trends, and Opportunities (with Upal Mahbub, Md. Atiqur Rahman Ahad, and Richard Hartley) [Coming!]
Learn Computer Science. Change the world.

Computing Research Association (CRA)

NSF CISE

UCSB and Santa Barbara:

UCSB | Computer Science Department | Media Arts & Technology Program
Dynamical Neuroscience Graduate Program
Center for Spatial Studies
Cognitive Science
Center for Information Technology and Society (CITS)
Center for Digital Games Research
Technology Management Program (and TMP's New Venture Competition)

Santa Barbara Pictures

My former startup company Caugnate is now part of PTC/Vuforia.
My Erdos number: 3
FG 2020 keynote talk slides
Slides and links from a talk on Who Cares about AI Regulation?

