Professor: Mi Zhang 0002
University: Ohio State University
URL: https://engineering.osu.edu/people/mizhang.1
Description: Skip to main content

This site uses cookies to remember your browser. Manage your cookie preferences

Ohio State navigation bar

The Ohio State University

Map
BuckeyeLink
Webmail
Search Ohio State
Secondary navigation
Departments
Alumni & Giving
Corporate Engagement
Inclusive Excellence
For Faculty/Staff
Open search form
Main navigation
UNDERGRADUATE
GRADUATE
FACULTY & RESEARCH
ABOUT
Zhang, Mi
Breadcrumb
Home
Directory
Zhang, Mi
Mi Zhang
Associate Professor, Computer Science and Engineering
Dreese Laboratories
2015 Neil Ave
Columbus, OH 43210-1210
zhang.13664@osu.edu
PERSONAL WEBSITE
OSU AIOT AND MLSYS LAB
OSU AIOT SEMINAR SERIES
Biography

Short Bio: Mi Zhang is an Associate Professor and the Director of AIoT and Machine Learning Systems Lab in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at The Ohio State University (OSU). He received his Ph.D. degree from University of Southern California (USC) and B.S. from Peking University, and spent one year as a postdoctoral scholar at Cornell University. 

Research Areas: The key mission of Dr. Zhang's research lab is to bring the power of AI, in particular, deep learning, to Empowering Billions of Everyday Devices with AI to realize the vision of Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT). To achieve such mission, his group focuses on its core challenges related to sensing, intelligence, connectivity, efficiency, automation, scalability, privacy, and inclusiveness as well as its important applications such as healthcare and sustainability. Achieving such goal requires a combination of approaches. His work draws insights from a broad set of disciplines including mobile & embedded systems, AI/machine learning, wireless networking, distributed systems, and human-centered computing.

Specifically, Dr. Zhang and his students currently work on the following topics:

Edge AI for mobile, AR (Metaverse), IoT as well as networked and distributed edge-cloud systems
Federated Learning
AI/Machine Learning for Systems (wireless networking, video analytics, sensing systems)
Systems for AI/Machine Learning
Mobile Health and Human-Centered AI (digital mental health, smart hearing aids, pill identification)
Automated Machine Learning

Honors and Awards: Dr. Zhang is the 4th Place Winner (1st Place in U.S. and Canada) of 2019 Google MicroNet Challenge (CIFAR-100 Track), the Third Place Winner of 2017 NSF Hearables Challenge, and the champion of 2016 NIH Pill Image Recognition Challenge. He is the recipient of seven best paper awards and nominations. He is also the recipient of the NSF CRII Award, Facebook Faculty Research Award, Amazon Machine Learning Research Award, MSU Innovation of the Year Award, and the inaugural USC ECE SIPI Distinguished Alumni Award in the Junior/Academia category for his contributions to mobile/edge computing in his early career.

Recent Talks:

Stanford University: Empowering the Next Billion Devices with Deep Learning, 2021.
Expertise
Edge AI
Machine Learning Systems
Mobile Computing

Wireless Networking and Cyber-Physical Systems

Mobile Health

Human-centered AI

COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
122 Hitchcock Hall
2070 Neil Avenue
Columbus, OH 43210
QUICK LINKS

Directory

Undergrad Majors

Ways to Give

Dean Ayanna Howard

News/Media
 

CONNECT
Facebook profile
Twitter profile
LinkedIn profile
Instagram profile
YouTube profile
Flickr profile
Copyright ©2024 The Ohio State University
Accessibility Policy
Privacy Policy
Help
Log in
Review cookie settings

