Professor: Michael Ferdman
University: Stony Brook University
URL: http://compas.cs.stonybrook.edu/~mferdman
Description: Mike Ferdman
Associate Professor, CS, Stony Brook University
home
cv
publications
teaching
personal
contact

I am an Associate Professor of Computer Science at Stony Brook University. I direct the Computer Architecture Stony Brook (COMPAS) Lab. Prior to joining Stony Brook, I completed my Ph.D. at Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) under the supervision of Babak Falsafi. While completing my dissertation, I spent several years working remotely from Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL).

My research interests are in the area of computer architecture, with emphasis on the design of server systems. I work on the entire computing stack, from server software and operating systems, to networks and processor microarchitecture. My current research projects include FPGA accelerator integration into server environments (e.g., Intel HARP, Microsoft Catapult, and Amazon F1), FPGA programmability (e.g., virtual memory and high-level synthesis), accelerators for machine learning (e.g., transformers and convolutional neural networks), efficient network processing and software-defined networking, speculative performance and energy-enhancing techniques for high-performance processors, and programming models and mechanisms for emerging memory technologies (e.g., HBM and 3D XPoint).

If you are a PhD student at Stony Brook and want to work with me, please send me email to arrange an appointment.

 
Latest News

April 26, 2024: Our paper NUCAlloc: Fine-Grained Block Placement in Hashed Last-Level NUCA Caches will appear at ICS'24.

June 25, 2023: AMD donated a U280 FPGA to the lab - thanks AMD!

March 28, 2023: Scale-out Processors was selected for inclusion in the ISCA 1996-2020 retrospective!

March 28, 2023: Clearing the Clouds receives the ACM SIGARCH / SIGPLAN / SIGOPS ASPLOS 2023 Influential Paper (test-of-time) Award!

March 23, 2023: Our paper TailCheck: A Lightweight Heap Overflow Detection Mechanism with Page Protection and Tagged Pointers will appear at OSDI'23.

Copyright © 2012-2024 by Mike Ferdman

