Professor: Ming Yin 0001
University: Purdue University
URL: https://www.cs.purdue.edu/people/faculty/mingyin
Description: Skip to main content
Find Info For 
Apply
News
President
Shop
Visit
Give
Emergency
Department of Computer Science
Home
About Us
People
Diversity
Academics
Research
Alumni
Media
Corporate
Resources
Home 
People 
Faculty 
Ming Yin
PEOPLE
FACULTY
AWARDS
STAFF
GRADUATE STUDENTS
Printable Faculty/Staff Directory
My Homepage

Ming Yin
Assistant Professor of Computer Science


Joined department: Fall 2018
Education
B.E., Tsinghua University, Computer Software (2011)
Ph.D., Harvard University, Computer Science (2017)



Ming Yin is an assistant professor in the Department of Computer Science, Purdue University. Her primary research interests lie in the interdisciplinary field of social computing and crowdsourcing. She designs and conducts large-scale online behavioral experiments to obtain a quantitative perspective on participants' behavior in social computing and crowdsourcing systems (e.g., on-demand labor markets like Amazon Mechanical Turk). Based on the empirical evidence from the behavioral data, She further works on designing realistic models, novel algorithms and effective interfaces to facilitate the development of more intelligent and sustainable systems. Her research broadly connects to the fields of artificial intelligence and applied machine learning, computational social science, human-computer interaction and behavioral economics. Ming is named as a Siebel Scholar (Class of 2017), and has received Best Paper Honorable Mention at the ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI'16). Ming is a postdoctoral researcher at Microsoft Research New York City in 2017-2018, completed her PhD in computer science at Harvard University in 2017, and received her bachelor's degree from Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, in 2011.

Last Updated: Dec 4, 2020 1:55 PM
COMMUNICATION
OneCampus Portal
Brightspace
BoilerConnect
Office 365
Outlook
myPurdue
CAMPUS
Faculty and Staff
Human Resources
Careers
Colleges and Schools
Directory
Campus Map
DEPARTMENT RESOURCES
Business Office
My.cs Portal
Reserve a LWSN Room
Overrides for CS Courses
Computer Systems Status
Lawson Building Hours
MORE DEPARTMENT RESOURCES
CS Seminars
Science Seminars
Sitemap
Fix It: Maintenance Request

Department of Computer Science, 305 N. University Street, West Lafayette, IN 47907

Phone: (765) 494-6010 • Fax: (765) 494-0739

Copyright © 2024 Purdue University | An equal access/equal opportunity university | Copyright Complaints | DOE Degree Scorecards

Trouble with this page? Accessibility issues? Please contact the College of Science.

