Professor: Mohammed J. Zaki
University: Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
URL: http://www.cs.rpi.edu/~zaki
Description: Skip to main content
Zaki Home Page
Publications
Github
DataMining
MLinBioinfo
Mohammed J. Zaki


Department Head
Department of Computer Science
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
Troy, New York 12180-3590



Mohammed J. Zaki is a Professor and Department Head of Computer Science at RPI. He received his Ph.D. degree in computer science from the University of Rochester in 1998. His research interests focus on novel data mining and machine learning techniques, particularly for learning from graph structured and textual data, with applications in bioinformatics, personal health and financial analytics. He has around 300 publications (and 6 patents), including the Data Mining and Machine Learning textbook (2nd Edition, Cambridge University Press, 2020). He is the founding co-chair for the BIOKDD series of workshops. He is currently an associate editor for Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, and he has also served as Area Editor for Statistical Analysis and Data Mining, and as Associate Editor for ACM Transactions on Knowledge Discovery from Data, and Social Networks and Mining. He was the program co-chair for SDM'08, SIGKDD'09, PAKDD'10, BIBM'11, CIKM'12, ICDM'12, IEEE BigData'15, and CIKM'18, and he recently co-chaired CIKM'22. He is currently serving on the Board of Directors for ACM SIGKDD. He was a recipient of the National Science Foundation CAREER Award and the Department of Energy Early Career Principal Investigator Award, as well as HP Innovation Research Award, and Google Faculty Research Award. His research is supported in part by NSF, DARPA, NIH, DOE, IBM, Google, HP, and Nvidia. He is a Fellow of the IEEE, a Fellow of the ACM, and a Fellow of the AAAS.

Courses

Fall 2023: Data Mining

Spring 2022: Machine Learning in Bioinformatics

Spring 2021: CSCI2300 Introduction to Algorithms

Publications and Software

You can find all of the publications and related sofware (and datasets, where applicable) at Publications

You can directly access the software at my github page.

You can also find my publications on  and  and 

Books

    

Contents © 2024 Mohammed J. Zaki - Powered by Nikola

