Professor: Murat Kantarcioglu
University: University of Texas at Dallas
URL: http://www.utdallas.edu/~muratk
Description: 


Dr. Murat Kantarcioglu

	

Ashbel Smith Professor of Computer Science, 

University of Texas at Dallas 




Director, UTD Data Security and Privacy Lab





Faculty Associate, Harvard University Data Privacy Lab



muratk at utdallas . edu


        
	

My research is centered on developing technologies capable of efficiently extracting valuable information from data without compromising privacy or security. My work spans various domains, including addressing security and privacy challenges in data science and machine learning, social networks, databases, healthcare, and applied cryptography for data security. I also delve into risk and incentive issues in assured information sharing, as well as employing machine learning for cybersecurity and homeland security purposes. More recently, my focus has shifted towards exploring security, accountability, fairness, and privacy concerns in machine learning, along with the application of blockchain technology for assured information sharing.


I am the the recipient of various awards including NSF CAREER award, the AMIA (American Medical Informatics Association) 2014 Homer R Warner Award and the IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers) ISI (Intelligence and Security Informatics) 2017 Technical Achievement Award presented jointly by IEEE SMC and IEEE ITS societies for my research in data security and privacy. I am also a fellow of AAAS (American Association for the Advancement of Science), and IEEE, and a distinguished member of ACM.


Please visit UTD Data Security and Privacy Lab's web page for more details related to our research and publicly available software.


In addition, please see the following interview for a summary of some of our research results. More information on cyber security related activities at UT Dallas, please see the UT Dallas Cyber Security Research and Education Institute web page.

Please also see the some of the news articles that mention our research or views on data security and privacy: Boston Globe, ABC News, GenomeWeb,  ACM News, Network World, The Huffington Post, Dallas Morning News, KDAF-TV Channel 33(1)(Social network privacy related), KDAF-TV Channel 33 (2) (CyberStalking related), CBS 11 TV, Marketsforgood.org    My perspectives on Data-Centric Cybersecurity (slides).


Some of  the conferences that I am involved with.


CV


For biographical and historical info, please see my NSF Style [CV]


Publications

Publication information, please visit the following page [Publications].


Education

Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana, USA

        Ph.D., Computer Science, Advisor: Chris Clifton, August 2005

        Graduate Certificate in Applied Statistics, May 2005.

METU, Ankara, Turkey

B.S., Computer Engineering with Minor in Finance, June 2000


Teaching

For information on courses that I teach, please visit the following web page  [Teaching]


Current Ph.D. Students
Mestan Celik Firat
Kunal Mukherjee (co-advised with Dr. Kangkook Jee)

Chengen Wang

Alumni

I had chance to work with many talented students over the years. Please visit the following page for Alumni information [Alumni].




