Professor: Najoung Kim
University: Boston University
URL: https://najoung.kim/
Description: Najoung Kim
[nɑːd͡​ʒʌŋ kʰɪm]

Department of Linguistics
& CS (affiliated),
Boston University





Office 808, 665 Comm. Ave,
Boston, MA
najoung@bu.edu


About

Publications

CV

For Students


  

Hosted on GitHub Pages — Theme by orderedlist

I’m an Assistant Professor at the Department of Linguistics and an Affiliated Faculty at the Department of Computer Science at Boston University. I am also a Visiting Faculty Researcher at Google. Previously, I was a Faculty Fellow at the Center for Data Science at New York University. Even before that, I was a PhD student in the Department of Cognitive Science at Johns Hopkins University, advised by Dr. Paul Smolensky and Dr. Kyle Rawlins. My interests, broadly, are meaning and generalization in human and machine learners. I use computational and experimental linguistic methodologies to explore these areas. Please refer to the Publications section to find out more.

I have a new “For students” section for current and prospective students!

Updates
May 2024: Preprint on code & entity tracking is out! Work with Sebastian Schuster and Shubham Toshniwal.
May 2024: Gave an invited talk at the NSF New Horizons Workshop on Linguistic tests as unit tests and Mathematics Of Neuroscience and AI Convention on compositional generalization in neural networks.
April 2024: Gave an invited talk at MIT CPL lab on using simulated learners for hypothesis generation.
April 2024: My students Adi Yedetore and Hayley Ross presented their work at NENLP!
March 2024: Gave an invited talk at Brown Linguistics on using simulated learners for hypothesis generation and a keynote talk at Scale-LLM Workshop on inverse scaling.
Feb 2024: Gave an invited talk at UT Austin SXSW on entity tracking in LMs.
Feb 2024: Abstract on context-dependent privative inferences about A+Ns accepted to ELM 3 (Work with Hayley Ross and Kate Davidson).
Nov 2023: I was appointed as a CDS Faculty Fellow at BU! 2nd CDS Faculty Fellow position I’ve held :)
Oct 2023: Presented Abstraction via exemplars? at BUCLD.
Education / Professional experience
Current:
Assistant Professor, Dept. of Linguistics
Affiliated faculty, Dept. of Computer Science
Faculty Fellow, Center for Data Science
at Boston University


Visiting Faculty Researcher, Google


2021–2022:
Faculty Fellow, Center for Data Science, New York University


2021
Ph.D., Dept. of Cognitive Science, Johns Hopkins University


May-Nov 2020
Research Intern, Google
Student Researcher, Google


Summer 2019
Research Intern, IBM research


2015–2016
Visiting researcher, NLP*CL Lab, School of Computing, KAIST


2015
M.St. General Linguistics & Comparative Philology
University of Oxford (Ertegun scholar)


2013–2014
Intern developer
Knowledge Extraction/NLP Team, NAVER Corporation


2013
B.A. English Linguistics & Literature
B.A. Linguistics with minor in Computer Science & Engineering
Seoul National University


