Professor: Nam Sung Kim
University: Univ. of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
URL: https://fast.ece.illinois.edu/
Description: FAST

	

Future Architecture and System Technology for Scalable Computing

	




Home

	

Members

	

Publications

	

Research Tools

	

Contact

	

 


							

 

	

For future scalable computing systems, we explore not only processor, memory and IO subsystem architectures but also system hardware and software together. Especially, we aim to prototype our cool concepts with various implementation technologies and demonstrate them with commercial systems although we evaluate them with simulators. We have aimed to impact the industry research and development with our proposals, and our proposals have been evaluated and/or adopted by big tech companies. Our recent research focuses on exploring cool memory and networking technologies such as Compute eXpress Link (CXL) based memory modules and various SmartNICs to make large-scale computer systems more efficient in terms of performance, energy consumption, and cost.

The recent technologies we have been exploring:

CXL Memory Expander

Source: Alloy: Parallel-serial memory channel architecture for single-chip heterogeneous processor systems | IEEE Conference Publication | IEEE Xplore

 

Source: Expanding the Limits of Memory Bandwidth and Density: Samsung’s CXL Memory Expander | Samsung Semiconductor Global

 

	

Modern computing systems have demanded higher memory bandwidth. However, the current parallel interface (e.g., DDR4) can increase neither the number of (memory) channels nor the bit rate of the channels without paying high package and power costs. In contrast, the high-speed serial interface (HSI) can offer much higher bandwidth for the same number of pins and lower power consumption for the same bandwidth than the parallel interface. This allows us to integrate more channels under a pin and/or package power constraint but at the cost of longer latency for memory accesses and higher static energy consumption in particular for idle channels. In our work, we first provided a deep understanding of recent HSI (e.g., PCIe) exhibiting very distinct characteristics from past serial interfaces in terms of bit rate, latency, energy per bit transfer, and static power consumption. To overcome the limitation of using only parallel (e.g., DDR) or serial (e.g., PCIe) interfaces, we proposed a hybrid memory channel architecture-Alloy (the top illustration) consisting of low-latency parallel and high-bandwidth serial channels. At the architecture level, this proposal is the same as the current CXL memory expander in which a CPU is connected to both DDR and PCIe-based CXL (Compute eXpress Link) (the middle illustration).

 

CXL is a high-speed interconnect technology that enables data transfer between CPUs, GPUs, and other devices. CXL-based memory expander technology, also known as CXL.mem, is an extension of the CXL specification that allows for the expansion of memory capacity beyond what is physically installed in a system. Traditionally, memory expansion has been achieved by adding more DIMM (dual in-line memory module) slots or increasing the capacity of existing DIMMs. However, CXL.mem allows for the use of external memory devices, such as high-speed DRAM or persistent memory, to expand a system's memory capacity. This is achieved by connecting these external devices to the system via the CXL interconnect. CXL.mem operates by using the CXL.io protocol to access the external memory devices. The system sees the external memory devices as if they were part of the local memory, allowing for seamless integration and efficient access to the additional memory capacity. One of the key advantages of CXL.mem is its high bandwidth and low latency. This allows for faster access to data stored in the external memory devices, which can be particularly beneficial in data-intensive applications such as machine learning, data analytics, and high-performance computing. CXL.mem is still a developing technology, and it is not yet widely available. However, it has the potential to greatly increase memory capacity and performance in a wide range of applications.

 

Memory Channel Network (MCN) based Near-DRAM  Processing

 

Concept

Source: Application-Transparent Near-Memory Processing Architecture with Memory Channel Network | IEEE Conference Publication | IEEE Xplore

 

A Research Prototype based on IBM’s Contuto and POWER8 System

Source: Application-Transparent Near-Memory Processing Architecture with Memory Channel Network | IEEE Conference Publication | IEEE Xplore

 

 

An Industry Prototype by Samsung

Source: Samsung

	

The physical memory capacity of servers is expected to increase drastically with deployment of the forthcoming non-volatile memory technologies. This is a welcomed improvement for emerging data-intensive applications. For such servers to be cost-effective, nonetheless, we must cost-effectively increase compute throughput and memory bandwidth commensurate with the increase in memory capacity without compromising application readiness. Tackling this challenge, we developed Memory Channel Network (MCN) architecture. Specifically, we first proposed an MCN DIMM, an extension of a buffered DIMM where a small but capable processor called MCN processor is integrated with a buffer device on the DIMM for near-memory processing. Second, we implemented device drivers to give the host and MCN processors in a server an illusion that they are independent heterogeneous nodes connected through an Ethernet link. These allow the host and MCN processors in a server to run a given data-intensive application together based on popular distributed computing frameworks such as MPI and Spark without any change in the host processor hardware and its application software, while offering the benefits of high-bandwidth and low-latency communications between the host and the MCN processors over memory channels. As such, MCN can serve as an application-transparent framework which can seamlessly unify near-memory processing within a server and distributed computing across such servers for data-intensive applications. Our evaluation shows that a server with 8 MCN DIMMs offers 4.56X higher throughput and consume 47.5% less energy than a cluster with 9 conventional nodes connected through Ethernet links, as it facilitates up to 8.17 times higher aggregate DRAM bandwidth utilization. Then, we demonstrated the feasibility of MCN with an IBM POWER8 system and an experimental buffered DIMM.

 

We are the first research group proposed a DIMM-based near-DRAM computing (NDA: Near-DRAM acceleration architecture leveraging commodity DRAM devices and standard memory modules, HPCA 2015). and this MCN-based near-DRAM processing work became the foundation for Samsung’s AxDIMM, and Samsung and Meta jointly evaluated its efficacy for accelerating Deep Learning Recommendation Model (DLRM).  The AxDIMM has been ued as a popular platform to explore various near-DRAM processing concept until the CXL-based memory modules were introduced to industry researchers.

 

Processing-In-Memory (PIM)

 

Source: In-DRAM near-data approximate acceleration for GPUs | Proceedings of the 27th International Conference on Parallel Architectures and Compilation Techniques (acm.org)

 

An Industry Prototype by Samsung

Source: Aquabolt-XL: Samsung HBM2-PIM with in-memory processing for ML accelerators and beyond | IEEE Conference Publication | IEEE Xplore

 

Integration with Commercial Products

Source: Aquabolt-XL: Samsung HBM2-PIM with in-memory processing for ML accelerators and beyond | IEEE Conference Publication | IEEE Xplore

	

The performance of modern computing systems is bottlenecked by the off-chip communication bandwidth and its energy cost. Integrating the accelerators within DRAM (i.e., PIM) can mitigate these bottlenecks and additionally expose them to the higher internal bandwidth of DRAM. However, such an integration is challenging, as should not disturb the highly-optimized DRAM core circuitry. To enable the integration, this work proposed an integration of a SIMD acceleration unit with each DRAM bank (the top illustration).

Later, Professor Kim worked with talented Samsung engineers and researchers to further develop an industry version of an advanced PIM architecture similar to what he proposed (i.e., integration of SIMD units with DRAM banks). For a commercial success, he aimed to develop a PIM architecture that does not demand any change to (1) the existing processor architectures and (2) the existing DRAM interface so that the PIM device can be a drop-in-replacement of standard DRAM device; this development philosophy was inspired by the success of SSD which was initially developed as a drop-in-replacement of HDD although it began to use an interface specialized for SSD later.  The PIM architecture was implemented in HBM2 (HBM-PIM) (the middle illustration), and later HBM-PIM was integrated with Xilinx U280 (the bottom illustration), AMD MI-50 GPU, and AMD MI-100 GPU. This PIM architecture became the foundation of a JEDEC HBM3-PIM standard later.

 

News

4/11/2024

	

[Fellowship] Congratulations to Jiaqi Lou and Yan Sun for receiving Wen-mei Hwu Fellowship and Rambus Fellowship




2/27/2024

	

[Award] Professor Nam Sung Kim won the Intel's 2023 Outstanding Researcher Award.




12/18/2023

	

[Honor] Professor Nam Sung Kim was elevated to National Academy of Inventors (NAI) Fellow.




11/10/2023

	

[Award] `Improving System Performance by Offloading Memory-Intensive Kernel Features to CXL Type-2 Device’ work received the best demo award at the SRC/DARPA JUMP 2.0 annual review meeting. Congratulations to Harry and Yan!




10/3/2023

	

[Award] ` Making sense of using a SmartNIC to reduce datacenter tax from SLO and TCO perspectives’ received a Best Paper Runner-up Award from IISWC. Congratulations to Jinghan, Jiaqi, Yan, and Jerry!




7/1/2023

	

[Honor] `Drowsy Caches: Simple Techniques for Reducing Leakage Energy’ published at ISCA in 2002 is selected as one of ISCA@50 Retrospective papers.




6/10/2023

	

Congratulations! Dong Kai (Edward) Wang successfully completed his Ph.D. defense and joins the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign as a Teaching Assistant Professor!




11/28/2022

	

The contract is signed today! I will co-lead the SRC/DARPA JUMP 2.0 Intelligent Memory and Storage Center (PRISM: PRocessing In Storage and Memory), starting January 2023.




11/11/2022

	

Congratulations! Youjie Li successfully completed his Ph.D. defense and joins Meta as a Researcher!




6/30/2022

	

Congratulations! Yifan Yuan successfully completed his Ph.D. defense and joins Intel Research as a Sr. Research Scientist!




1/12/2022

	

[Honor] Professor Kim’s work on PIM hardware architecture and software stack, “Hardware Architecture and Software Stack for PIM Based on Commercial DRAM Technology” was recognized as Honorable Mention by IEEE Micro Top Picks.




11/9/2021

	

[Technology Transfer] The software code developed for our work published in ISCA will be part of Intel’s RDT software package!




10/4/2021

	

[Award] Professor Kim’s 2003 IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Microarchitecture (MICRO) paper got SIGMICRO Test of Time Award




8/4/2021

	

[Honor] Professor Kim is named the W.J. ‘Jerry’ Sanders III – Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Endowed Chair




3/4/2021

	

[Industry’s first HBM-based PIM Solution] Professor Kim’s work on PIM hardware architecture and software stack, “Hardware Architecture and Software Stack for PIM Based on Commercial DRAM Technology” got accepted by ISCA 2021!




3/3/2021

	

[Invited Talk] Professor Kim gave a keynote speech on his PIM work at HPCA!




2/18/2021

	

[World’s first HBM-based PIM Chip] Professor Kim’s paper on the industry’s first HBM Processing In Memory (PIM) chip will be presented at ISSCC! [Samsung’s Press Release, Youtube Press Release, ZDNet, Tom’s Hardware] 




1/13/2021

	

[Honor] Professor Kim was elevated to ACM Fellow [ACM Press Release].




1/11/2021

	

[Honor] BabelFish: Fusing address translations for containers appeared in ISCA 2020 was selected as one of IEEE Micro Top Pick 2021 papers.

 

