Professor: Nathan Jacobs
University: Washington University in St. Louis
URL: https://engineering.wustl.edu/faculty/Nathan-Jacobs.html
Description: Skip to content
Information for:
Apply Now!
McKelvey School of Engineering
Academics
Faculty & Research
Offices & Services
News & Events
About
Home Faculty Directory Nathan Jacobs
Nathan Jacobs
Pronouns: He/him/his
Professor

Computer Science & Engineering

Phone
314-935-6163
Office
McKelvey Hall, Room 3032
 jacobsn@wustl.edu  Lab website  
Twitter
  Google Scholar  Download CV

Education

PhD, computer science, Washington University in St. Louis, 2010

Research areas

Applications of Imaging in Science & Engineering
Computational Methodologies
Computer Vision
Graphics, Vision, and Imaging
Machine Learning & Artificial Intelligence
Machine Learning in Image Science
Natural Language Processing
Signals & Imaging

Expertise

Develops learning-based computer vision algorithms, with a focus on geospatial and medical applications

Research

Professor Jacobs’ research centers on developing learning-based algorithms and systems for extracting information from large-scale image collections. He has applied this expertise in many application domains, with a particular focus on geospatial and medical applications. He earned a PhD in computer science at Washington University in St. Louis in 2010. Prior to re-joining the institution as a professor in 2022, he was a professor of computer science at the University of Kentucky.
   
His research has been funded by the National Science Foundation, National Institutes of Health, Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity (IARPA), National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) and Google, among others. He holds two U.S. patents and has received numerous awards and honors, including a National Science Foundation CAREER award in 2016 and the College of Engineering Dean’s Award for Excellence in Research at the University of Kentucky in 2018.

Biography

Nathan Jacobs joins McKelvey School of Engineering from the University of Kentucky, where he was on the faculty since 2010, most recently as a professor of computer science and director of graduate studies (data science). In addition, he is a member of the Institute for Biomedical Informatics and owner of Multidomain Vision Research LLC, a research and software development firm that specializes in novel algorithms in computer vision, medical imaging and remote sensing. 

In the News

Artificial intelligence meets cartography

Graduate students in Nathan Jacobs’ lab presented mapping tools to create satellite images from text prompts at EarthVision 2024.

06.17.2024
McKelvey Engineering faculty members awarded Fall 2023 Here & Next Seed Grants

Computer Science & Engineering and Energy, Environmental & Chemical Engineering faculty members to research AI for health, public health, and geospatial initiative, among other areas.

01.24.2024
For the birds

Nathan Jacobs leads team that developed BirdSAT, a tool for classification and ecological mapping of global bird species.

01.11.2024
Find more news about Nathan Jacobs


Facebook
 
Twitter
 
LinkedIn
 
Instagram
 
YouTube
Engineering Departments
Biomedical Engineering
Computer Science & Engineering
Division of Engineering Education
Electrical & Systems Engineering
Energy, Environmental & Chemical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
Sever Institute - professional degrees
Technology & Leadership Center - training for industry
Contact Us
Washington University in St. Louis
McKelvey School of Engineering
MSC: 1100-122-303
1 Brookings Drive
St. Louis, MO 63130-4899
Contact Us
Resources
Canvas
Directory
Equity, Diversity & Inclusion
Emergency Management
Engineering IT
Maps & Directions
Make a Gift
WebFAC / WebSTAC

©2024 Washington University in St. Louis. Policies

