Professor: Nick Feamster
University: University of Chicago
URL: https://people.cs.uchicago.edu/~feamster
Description: Nick Feamster
Home
Bio
Papers
Teaching
Group
People
Software
Nick Feamster

Neubauer Professor, Department of Computer Science
Founder and Co-Director, Internet Equity Initiative
Director of Research, Data Science Institute
Lab Director, Network Operations and Internet Security Lab
University of Chicago
 CV


 John Crerar Library Room 261
 feamster -at- uchicago . edu
 + 1 773 702 2322 (no voicemail, please)


I am Neubauer Professor of Computer Science at the University of Chicago.

I direct the Network Operations and Internet Security research lab, where we develop data-driven tools and systems to improve Internet security, performance, and adoption. Join us!

I am the founder and co-director of the Internet Equity Initative, a cross-disicplinary research center aimed at making Internet access more equitable.

I am also the Director of Research at the Data Science Institute, which is a university-wide initiative to promote data science research and education at the University of Chicago.

News
31 Dec 2022	Eight new publications this year on topics ranging from Internet equity and the digital divide, to more efficient anomaly detection algorithms for the Internet of things.
15 Aug 2022	We received generous awards from the National Science Foundation to understand the deployment considerations for encrypted DNS, to develop and deploy Netrics for community use, and to deploy thousands of Netrics devices across the United States.
15 Jul 2022	Had a fantastic time teaching computer networking to high school students in the University of Chicago's Upward Bound summer program.
10 May 2022	The Internet Equity Initiative is launched!
8 Dec 2020	Cloudflare and Apple announce a deployment of Oblivious DNS.
20 Nov 2020	Our CACM Article on the future of Internet speed testing is out! Watch the video here.

Read more Noise Lab News.

I design and deploy network protocols and systems that make the Internet work better. I use empirical network measurement and machine learning to understand and improve network performance, security, and privacy. The results of my research often have implications to policy. I regularly work with federal and municipal organizations, including the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the City of Chicago on equitable Internet access, security, and privacy. Read more about projects at my research group web page.

My research group publishes papers in top-tier networking, security, and machine learning/modeling conferences, and also regularly publish open-source software. An important value of our lab is real-world impact, through the deployment of operational systems. Contact me to learn more about the group, including how to join.

Group
Software
Advice Blog
Book

Copyright © Nick Feamster 2023


