Professor: Nikhil Garg 0001
University: Cornell University
URL: https://gargnikhil.com/
Description: Nikhil Garg
 
  


Home
Papers
Teaching
Group
Blog

Hi! I'm an assistant professor of Operations Research and Information Engineering (ORIE) at Cornell Tech, as part of the Jacobs Institute, and an ORIE, Computer Science, and Information Science field member at Cornell University.

Research overview
I advance computational understanding of and data-driven decision-making within societal systems. Methodologically, my work spans computer science, operations research, data science, and their intersection with economics and policymaking -- I try to combine the relative strengths of machine learning/AI and market design/operations to improve democracy, online matching platforms, and societal systems at large. My recent work has been in two high-level directions:
AI and Operations for Public Interest: Developing empirical methods to audit and design more equitable systems, and how challenges such as missing data, uncertainty, and strategic behavior affect the design of these systems. This work is often in collaboration with government agencies or non-profits using real data. One focus has been improving resident crowdsourcing systems in cities, such as 311. Recent papers: Quantifying Spatial Under-reporting Disparities in Resident Crowdsourcing and A Bayesian Spatial Model to Correct Under-Reporting in Urban Crowdsourcing. See here for a recent talk video.
Market design and Algorithms: Developing mathematical models for algorithmic systems in markets, especially how uncertainty affects the design of recommendation and matching in high-stakes settings such as labor and education. Recent papers: Monoculture in Matching Markets and Reconciling the accuracy-diversity trade-off in recommendations.
Other projects include studying gerrymandering and stereotypes in word embeddings.

My work has received several awards, including the INFORMS George Dantzig Dissertation award, ACM SIGecom Dissertation Award (Honorable Mention), Forbes 30 under 30 for Science, and the NSF graduate research fellowship. My work has also been covered in the New York Times, Washington Post, Science Magazine, Smithsonian Magazine (in print), Stanford Engineering magazine, and Stanford News, among others.

I received a MS and PhD from Stanford in 2020, where I was lucky to be advised by Ashish Goel and Ramesh Johari and was part of the Stanford Crowdsourced Democracy Team and the Society and Algorithms Lab, after which I was a post-doc at UC Berkeley EECS. Before that, I graduated with a BS and BA from the University of Texas at Austin in 2015. I like to have first-hand practical experience in a domain before tackling research questions, and have built real systems (including for participatory budgeting and at NASA, Uber, and Upwork). I was senior scientific advisor to PredictWise, where I led data science efforts during the 2020 US election cycle. I am also involved with MD4SG, and most recently am co-creating a Junior Faculty working group.

Contact me at ngarg@cornell.edu.

Cornell Students/PhD Applicants: I am an ORIE/CS/IS field member and so can be primary advisor to PhD students in those departments. If you have not yet been admitted, apply to one of the above departments and note my name in your application materials. My ideal student has strong technical skills (whether theoretical or empirical) and is excited to use them to study societal systems. If you are an undergraduate student at Cornell, I often host students through programs such as ELI and CSURP. At Cornell Tech, I also often advise Master's students for independent study/Spec projects.
What's new
March-May 2024	New projects online and accepted to FAccT and EC!
Jan 2024	"Domain constraints improve risk prediction when outcome data is missing" accepted to ICLR`24!, and "Reconciling the accuracy-diversity trade-off in recommendations" accepted to WWW`24!
Dec 2023	Two papers accepted to AAAI`24, both using Bayesian modeling to study and address disparities in government services!
Dec 2023	"Quantifying Spatial Under-reporting Disparities in Resident Crowdsourcing" published in Nature Computational Science!
Sept 2023	Announced as finalist for INFORMS Junior Faculty Interest Group Paper Award!
Sept 2023	Upcoming and recent talks at MIT, UT Austin, Michigan, Impact Labs
October 2022	Upcoming and recent talks at Google, UIUC, INFORMS, Harvard, Columbia

