Professor: Paea LePendu
University: Univ. of California - Riverside
URL: https://sites.google.com/ucr.edu/paea-lependu
Description: Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
Paea LePendu – Homepage	
HomeTeachingResearchDSA
	
PiLabs
Computer Science & Engineering
Bourns Hall, A159-D
(509) 301-2153
paea.lependu@ucr.edu

An Associate Teaching Professor in the Department of Computer Science & Engineering at the University of California, Riverside, Dr. Paea LePendu studies applications of Biomedical Informatics. Editors at Nature have said that his work "advances the state of the art in pharmacovigilance."

Two notable publications you might take a look at include:

Pharmacovigilance using Clinical Notes (2014)

Risk of MACE for Proton Pump Inhibitors (2015)

You can also find out more about my work on LinkedIn or Google Scholar.

Biomedical Informatics

Electronic Health Records, Medical Lexicons, Pharmacovigilance and Population Health

Artificial Intelligence

Natural Language Processing, Automated Reasoning, Machine Learning and Data Mining

Databases

Structured & Unstructured Data,  Large-scale Knowledge-based Search and Retrieval

Dr. LePendu’s research has focused on Biomedical Informatics through the large-scale analysis of electronic medical data, making significant contributions in pharmacovigilance and electronic phenotyping. In particular, he specializes in large-scale text mining of doctor's notes. Currently, he is looking at technologies that blend knowledge representation in medicine with learning. For example, we are creating a benchmark for medical knowledge, which might be used to test the accuracy of large language models like ChatGPT.

For more information, please contact Dr. LePendu. PiLabs is always recruiting self-motivated undergraduates who excel at independent inquiry.

https://dsa.cs.ucr.edu/

Data Science Academy

PiLabs partners with the Riverside Unified School District to host the Data Science Academy for middle and high school students. We host multiple cohorts each year, including weekends and summers.



Are you an interested participant or parent?  Please check with your middle and high school teachers and school administrators for more information. We also provide brochures in Spanish for parents who do not speak or read English.

Are you an college student looking to help? Please contact Professor  LePendu to inquire about becoming a DSA Leader. We are looking for undergraduates willing to commit 2 or more years. All of our past DSA Leaders have learned exceptional skills that serve them well in their fantastic careers and endeavors.

Computer Science & Engineering
Bourns Hall, A159-D

(509) 301-2153

paea.lependu@ucr.edu

Report abuse

