Professor: Parisa Kordjamshidi
University: Michigan State University
URL: https://www.cse.msu.edu/~kordjams
Description: 

Parisa Kordjamshidi
Email: kordjams@msu.edu
Phone: (517) 355-8389
Room: 2140
Postal: Engineering Building 428 S. Shaw Lane, East Lansing, MI 48824.
Departmental Page, Google Scholar, LinkedIn, C.V.	
About me
HLR Lab
Publication
Teaching
Students/Openings
Grants/Awards
Talks
Professional Activities
Events/News
Software: Saul
Spatial Role Labeling
IHMC
Other
Tweets by Kordjamshidi
 

If you are interested in doing a PhD or Post-doc in Machine Learning, Natural Language Processing, Information extraction, Combining vision and language, Grounding, and Neuro-Symbolic AI, please send me an Email with your CV. Thank you for reaching out, your Email will not be missed. However, I can only afford responding to the candidates who are selected for zoom interview, I apologize in advance.

About me

Parisa Kordjamshidi is an associate professor of computer science and engineering. She joined Michigan State University on August 2019. Her main research interests are artificial intelligence, machine learning, natural language processing, and Neuro-symbolic AI. She is directing the research lab on Heterogeneous Learning and Reasoning (HLR). She has worked on the extraction of formal semantics and structured representations from natural language, with a specific focus on spatial semantics representation and structured output learning models. Her notable awards and project grants include NSF CAREER award (2019-2024) to work on combining learning and reasoning for spatial language understanding; Office of Naval Research (ONR) grant under the Science of AI program to perform basic research and develop a declarative learning-based programming framework for integration of domain knowledge into statistical learning (DominKnowS project, 2019-2023); Under the same program she is the leading PI for developing a Neuro-Symbolic framework for compositional learning and understanding multiple modalities of vision and language (2023-2026); She also obtained Amazon faculty research award (2022) for working on Vision and Language Navigation.
Parisa received a PhD from KU Leuven in 2013. She was a post-doc in UIUC in Cognitive Computation Group and was working for KnowEng, Big Data To Knowledge Project. Before joining MSU, she was assistant professor at Tulane university from 2016-2019. She is a member of Editorial board of Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research (JAIR) and a member of Editorial board of Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence, part of the journal Frontiers in Artificial Intelligence and Frontiers in Big Data. She has published, served as either program committee, senior program committee or area chair in conferences such as ACL, EMNLP, NAACL, COLING, IJCAI, AAAI, and ECAI and organized several international workshops at these venues. She has served as a member of organizing committees of NAACL-2018 and ECML-PKDD-2019, EMNLP-2021 conferences.


Research Interests
Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Natural Language Processing, Extraction of Spatial Semantics from Natural Language Text, Information Extraction from Biomedical Text, Structured Output Prediction Models, Probabilistic Graphical Models, Statistical Relational Learning, Learning Based Programming, Probabilistic Programming.





