Professor: Pascal Van Hentenryck
University: Georgia Institute of Technology
URL: https://sites.gatech.edu/pascal-van-hentenryck
Description: Skip to content
Pascal Van Hentenryck
Home About  Research  Teaching  Publications Videos News
Search 
Search for:
Search
Home

Pascal Van Hentenryck is the A. Russell Chandler III Chair and Professor at Georgia Tech., the director of the NSF Artificial Intelligence Institute for Advances in Optimization (AI4OPT), and the director of Tech-AI, the AI hub at Georgia Tech. Van Hentenryck’s research focuses on artificial intelligence for engineering and science and, in particular, energy,  supply chains and manufacturing, transportation, and health care. Earlier in his career, Van Hentenryck designed and implemented several widely used optimization systems, including the constraint programming language CHIP (the foundation of modern constraint-programming systems) and the modeling language OPL (now an IBM product).

Of Recent Interest 

Tech-AI, the AI hub at Georgia Tech.
NSF Artificial Intelligence Institute for Advances in Optimization.
The SAM Project in Mobility and the MARTA Reach Pilot (video)
The Savannah Project in Mobility.
The ERVA Report on AI Engineering.

In the Press

MARTA Reach: SaportaReport, Mass Transit, Intelligent Transport,   11alive

Teaching: Van Hentenryck has taught undergraduate and graduate classes in computer science (including computer systems, programming languages, and introductory programming), in engineering (discrete optimization, constraint programming, and infrastructure optimization), and in computational biology. He has won the Philip J. Bray Award at Brown University in 2010, the Teaching Excellence Award for Online Teaching at Georgia Tech in 2021, and the Student Recognition of Excellence in Teaching: Class of 1934 Award at Georgia Tech in 2021, 2022, and 2023.

Of Recent Interest 

EdX MOOC on Constraint Programming.
The Longitudinal Education Programs of AI4OPT.
Coursera MOOC on Discrete Optimization.
The Seth Bonder camp in computational and data science for high-school students.
Constraint Programming class (2019 reviews) (2020 reviews) (2020 graduate reviews) (2021 Reviews) (2022 undergraduates) (2022 graduates)(2023 Spring)


Outreach: In 2020, the Seth Bonder Camp was run online together with Booker T. Washington High School in Atlanta. In 2021, the camp was run online with KidsTeachTech and Banneker High School among others. In 2022, the Seth Bonder camp was run twice (including with students from Banneker high school, Drew Charter High School, and Westlake High School and accompanied by a teacher camp for high-school teachers from these schools. Van Hentenryck also co-teaches a deep learning class with Ms White at Drew Charter high school. Van Hentenryck won the 2023 Outstanding Achievement in Research Engagement and Outreach Award for some of these activities and his research.


Contact the Institute
Directory
Offices
Campus Map
Apply
Support / Give
Log in

Georgia Institute of Technology
North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332

404-894-2000

Emergency Information
Legal & Privacy Information
Human Trafficking Notice
Accessibility
Accountability
Accreditation
Employment

©2024 Georgia Institute of Technology

