Professor: Paul Beame
University: University of Washington
URL: http://www.cs.washington.edu/people/faculty/beame
Description: Skip to main content
	
	
MyCSE
Internal
Calendar
Directory
Helpful Links
Computing
CSE Course List
Time/Teaching Schedules
Academic Calendars
UW Homepage
About Us
Contact Us
 
 Quick Links
NEWS & EVENTS
 
PEOPLE
 
ACADEMICS
 
RESEARCH & INNOVATION
 
OUTREACH
 
SUPPORT #UWALLEN
 
APPLY!
Paul Beame
Contact
Paul Beame
CSE 668
206-543-5114
beamecs.washington.edu
Theory of Computation
Areas of interest: 

Computational complexity, proof complexity and satisfiability

Home
Professional
Publications 
Talks
Teaching
Paul received his B.Sc. in Mathematics in 1981, an M.Sc. in Computer Science in 1982, and Ph.D. in Computer Science in 1987, all from the University of Toronto. He was a Post-doctoral Research Associate at M.I.T. for the 1986-87 academic year and joined the University of Washington in 1987.

Paul's research is in pure and applied computational complexity. A major focus of his research is in proving lower bounds on the resources needed for solving computational problems. Such topics include communication complexity, time-space tradeoff lower bounds, circuit complexity, proof complexity, and data structures. Another focus of his research is on problems related to formal reasoning, including SAT-solving. His research includes applications of computational complexity in formal verification of software and hardware (currently focused on verifying non-linear arithmetic), in the study of databases, and in AI, particularly in knowledge representation, learning, and probabilistic inference.

Paul enjoys squash, softball and other sports where enthusiasm can compensate for a lack of talent.

There is a SCAM being sent to UW students using my name without my permission purporting to offer a research assistant position and paychecks or equivalent. Please do not follow up or respond, but contact authorities instead. Unfortunately, I have no control over it.

CONNECT WITH #UWALLEN

  

Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering
University of Washington

Main Administrative Offices:
Paul G. Allen Center, Box 352350
185 E Stevens Way NE
Seattle, WA 98195-2350
Directions

Student Services:
Bill & Melinda Gates Center, Box 352355
3800 E Stevens Way NE
Seattle, WA 98195-2355

Contact us:
Main Tel: (206) 543-1695
Media Inquiries: media at cs.washington.edu
Webmaster: support at cs.washington.edu


Undergraduate Advising: ugrad-adviser at cs.washington.edu
Undergraduate Outreach & Recruitment: outreach at cs.washington.edu
Professional Master's Program Advising: masters at cs.washington.edu
Graduate (Ph.D.) Advising: grad-advising at cs.washington.edu




Computer Engineering degree program accredited by ABET

Copyright © 2017-2021 University of Washington - Seattle - Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering | All Rights | Privacy | Terms

Drupal Login (not the general-purpose CSE login)

