Professor: Paulo Shakarian
University: Arizona State University
URL: https://isearch.asu.edu/profile/2424157
Description: ASU websites use cookies to enhance user experience, analyze site usage, and assist with outreach and enrollment. By continuing to use this site, you are giving us your consent to do this. Learn more about cookies on ASU websites in our Privacy Statement.

Ok, I agree
Skip to main content
Report an accessibility problem
ASU Home
My ASU
Colleges and Schools
Sign In
ASU Search
News/Events
Academics
Admission
Research
Athletics
Alumni
Giving
President
About ASU
Paulo Shakarian
Associate Professor,
School of Computing and Augmented Intelligence
Other ASU affiliations
Center for Cybersecurity and Trusted Foundations Affiliates
pshak02@asu.edu
Mail code: 8809
Campus: Tempe
‌
Biography
Research
Teaching
Long Bio

Paulo Shakarian, Ph.D. is a tenured Associate Professor at the Fulton Schools of Engineering at Arizona State University.  He specializes in artificial intelligence and machine learning – publishing numerous scientific books and papers.  Shakarian was named a “KDD Rising Star,” received the Air Force Young Investigator award, received multiple “best paper” awards and has been featured in major news media outlets such as CNN and The Economist.  Paulo also co-founded and led the startup company Cyber Reconnaissance, Inc. – which was the first commercial solution to use machine learning to predict future exploits.  The company raised over $8 million in venture capital, obtained over 80 customers, and was eventually acquired by Cyber Security Works.  Earlier in his career, Paulo was an officer in the U.S. Army where he served two combat tours in Iraq, earning a Bronze Star and the Army Commendation Medal for Valor.  During his military career, Paulo also served as a DARPA Fellow and as an advisor to IARPA.  He holds a Ph.D. and M.S. in computer science from the University of Maryland, College Park, and a B.S. in computer science from West Point.

Education
Ph.D. Computer Science, University of Maryland-College Park2011
M.S. Computer Science, University of Maryland-College Park 2009
B.S. Computer Science, U.S. Military Academy 2002
CV
 Curriculum Vitae
Expertise Areas
Artificial Intelligence
Logic
Machine Learning
Maps and Locations
Jobs
Directory
Contact ASU
My ASU
Copyright and Trademark
Accessibility
Privacy
Terms of Use
Emergency

