Professor: Peter N. Belhumeur
University: Columbia University
URL: http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~belhumeur
Description: 	
NEWS
 
COURSES
 
PUBLICATIONS
 
PROJECTS
 
DATASETS
 
STUDENTS
 
CONTACT
Peter N. Belhumeur
Professor
​Department of Computer Science 
​COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
Peter N. Belhumeur is currently a Professor in the Department of Computer Science at Columbia University and the Director of the Laboratory for the Study of Visual Appearance (VAP LAB). He received a Sc.B. in Information Sciences from Brown University in 1985. He received his Ph.D. in Engineering Sciences from Harvard University under the direction of David Mumford in 1993. He was a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Cambridge's Isaac Newton Institute for Mathematical Sciences in 1994. He was made Assistant, Associate and Professor of Electrical Engineering at Yale University in 1994, 1998, and 2001, respectively. He joined Columbia University as a Professor of Computer Science in 2002.

His research focus lies somewhere in the mix of computer vision and machine learning. He is a recipient of the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE) and the National Science Foundation Career Award. He received both the Siemens Best Paper Award at the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition and the Olympus Prize at the European Conference of Computer Vision. And most recently, he and his co-authors were awarded the Helmholtz Prize for fundamental contributions to Computer Vision. 

He is one of the creators of the popular apps Leafsnap (leafsnap.com), Birdsnap (birdsnap.com), and Dogsnap. These apps were the first to use machine learning technology for species (or breed) identification. Along with his co-creators of Leafsnap, he was given the EO Wilson Biodiversity Technology Pioneer Award. 
CONTACT
	
News
April 12, 2017: Venture Beat - Dropbox uses AI to to recognize words in documents scanned in its mobile apps

June 22, 2016: Engadget - Dropbox's iOS app will scan the scraps of paper cluttering your office

October 7, 2015: New York Times - Help in Identifying Trees for a More Colorful Autumn

September 9, 2014: TechCrunch - ​Dropbox Acqui-Hires KBVT’s Computer Vision Geniuses To Mine Its Photos

READ MORE
Home

Copyright © 2015

