Professor: Peyman Najafirad
University: University of Texas at San Antonio
URL: https://secureaiautonomylab.github.io/
Description: Secure AI Autonomy Lab
	
Publications
	
Talks
	
Teaching
	
Workshop
	
Blog Posts
Dr. Peyman Najafirad

The University of Texas at San Antonio

SP1 210B
Homepage
Email
Google Scholar
Github
LinkedIn
X (formerly Twitter)
Secure AI Autonomy Lab
Short Bio

Paul received his B.S. degree in computer engineering from the Sharif University of Technology, in 1994, the master’s degree in artificial intelligence from the Tehran Polytechnic, and the master’s degree in computer science, the Ph.D. degree in electrical and computer engineering from The University of Texas at San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas, USA. He is currently the Founder and the Director of the Secure AI and Autonomy Laboratory, Co-founder and Assistant Director of Open Cloud Institute, and an Associate Professor with the Departments of Information Systems and Cyber Security and Electrical and Computer Engineering (by courtesy) at UTSA.

Research Interest

My research area is machine learning, an approach to Artificial Intelligence that relies on learning from data. I’m broadly interested in inference and causality using graphical and probabilistic deep models in applications such as computer vision, natural language understanding, and cyber analytics.

AI security
Knowledge representation
Probabilistic decision making
Reinforcement learning
Ph.D. Students
Isaac Corley at isaac.corley@utsa.edu
Nafis Tanveer Islam at nafistanveer.islam@utsa.edu
Mazal Bethany at mazal.bethany@utsa.edu
Emet Bethany at emet.bethany@utsa.edu
Paul Young at paul.young@utsa.edu
Rinu Joseph at rinu.joseph@utsa.edu
Ana Nunez at ana.nunez@utsa.edu
Mohammad Bahrami Karkevandi at Mohammad.BahramiKarkevandi@utsa.edu
Fatemeh Haji at Fatemeh.Haji@utsa.edu
Former Ph.D. Students
Samuel Silva at samuel.silva@my.utsa.edu
Henry Chacon at Henry.Chacon@utsa.edu
Arun Das at arun.das@utsa.edu
Nihar Bendre at Nihar.Bendre@utsa.edu
Nima Ebadi at nima.ebadi@utsa.edu
Gonzalo De La Torre Parra at Gonzalo.DeLaTorreParra@utsa.edu
For more info

For more info about Secure AI Autonomy Lab can be found at our website.

Sitemap
FOLLOW: GITHUB FEED
© 2024 Dr. Paul Rad. Powered by Jekyll & AcademicPages, a fork of Minimal Mistakes.

