Professor: Polina Golland
University: Massachusetts Institute of Technology
URL: https://www.csail.mit.edu/person/polina-golland
Description: Skip to main content
FOR STUDENTS
FOR INDUSTRY
FOR MEMBERS
ACCESSIBILITY
Login
Research
People
News
Events
Symposia
About
 
PI CORE/DUAL
Polina Golland
Professor
EMAIL
polina@csail.mit.edu
PHONE
253-8005
ROOM
32-D470

I am a professor in the EECS Department and a principal investigator in the Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL) at MIT. My primary research interest is in developing novel techniques for biomedical image analysis and understanding. I particularly enjoy working on algorithms that either explore the geometry of the world and the imaging process in a new way or improve image-based inference through statistical modeling of the image data. I am interested in shape modeling and representation, predictive modeling and visualization of statistical models. My current research focuses on developing statistical analysis methods for characterization of biological processes based on image information. In this domain, I am interested in modeling biological shape and function, how they relate to each other and vary across individuals.

Last updated Feb 16 '22

RESEARCH AREAS
AI & ML Graphics & Vision
 
IMPACT AREAS
Health Care
RELATED LINKS
Web page
Projects
PROJECT
Quantification of Pulmonary Edema in Chest Radiographs
Medical Vision Group
Vision Group
We develop machine learning algorithms to automatically and quantitatively assess the severity of pulmonary edema from chest x-ray images.
 
 
 +1
 
PROJECT
Clinical Neuroimaging
Medical Vision Group
Vision Group
We develop novel algorithms for neuroimage segmentation, registration, generative modeling, and joint modeling of brain structure with clinical and genetic data.
 
PROJECT
Cardiac MRI analysis
We develop image analysis algorithms for whole-heart cardiac MRI in patients with severe congenital heart disease.
 
 1 MORE
Groups
COMMUNITY OF RESEARCH
Visual Computing at CSAIL
The shared mission of Visual Computing is to connect images and computation, spanning topics such as image and video generation and analysis, photography, human perception, touch, applied geometry, and more.

Lead 
Jonathan Ragan-Kelley
 
 
 +11
 
RESEARCH GROUP
Medical Vision Group
We develop new algorithms for medical image analysis and visualization of medical imagery.
Lead 
Polina Golland
 
 
 +9
 
RESEARCH GROUP
Vision Group
Our researchers create state-of-the-art systems to better recognize objects, people, scenes, behaviors and more, with applications in health-care, gaming, tagging systems and more.
Lead 
Ted Adelson
 
Fredo Durand
 
William Freeman
 
Polina Golland
MIT CSAIL

Massachusetts Institute of Technology

Computer Science & Artificial Intelligence Laboratory

32 Vassar St, Cambridge MA 02139

Contact
Press Requests
Accessibility
    

