Professor: Prateek Prasanna
University: Stony Brook University
URL: https://www.cs.stonybrook.edu/people/faculty/PrateekPrasanna
Description: Skip to main content
Department of Computer Science

Main menu
HOME
ABOUT US
ADMISSIONS
PEOPLE
RESEARCH
PROGRAMS
GIVING
Prateek Prasanna
Assistant Professor, Biomedical Informatics

Department of Biomedical Informatics
Stony Brook, NY 11794

Phone
(631) 638-2590
Website (URL)
https://bmi.stonybrookmedicine.edu/people/prateek_prasanna
Email
Prateek.Prasanna@stonybrook.edu
INTERESTS
Intersection of medical image analysis and machine learning
BIOGRAPHY

Prateek Prasanna received his Ph.D. in Biomedical Engineering from Case Western Reserve University, M.S. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Rutgers University, and B.Tech. in Electrical and Electronics Engineering from National Institute of Technology, Calicut, India. Prior to joining Stony Brook University, he was a Research Associate at CWRU and Case School of Medicine, Cleveland. Prasanna’s research has involved developing companion diagnostic tools for thoracic-, neuro-, and breast-imaging applications. The overarching goal of his research is to bridge the gap between human and machine interpretation of biomedical imaging data via techniques such as radiomics, pathomics, deep learning, and multi-modal data fusion. Current research directions include developing quantitative tools to predict lesion growth, discovering imaging markers of disease progression, and identifying prognostic signatures of response to therapy

RESEARCH

Building clinically translatable medical image analytics and machine learning tools for enabling better treatment decisions and evaluating response to different therapies.

Application areas: (a) Decision support for early detection and diagnosis of oncologic and non-oncologic diseases via machine learning approaches, (b) Targeting therapeutic procedures and monitoring response (e.g. guiding immunotherapy in lung cancer), and (c) Characterizing pathologic processes using multiscale data integration (e.g. radiology, pathology, genomics).

Right Faculty Menu
Faculty
Graduate Students
Staff
Awards
 

Department of Computer Science, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY 11794-2424 

Stony Brook University Home Page     |     CEAS    |     Members Only Area    |     Contact Us

