Professor: Prithviraj Ammanabrolu
University: Univ. of California - San Diego
URL: http://prithvirajva.com/
Description: Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to footer
Home
Publications
CV
Projects
Mentees
Bio
Prithviraj (Raj) Ammanabrolu

Assistant Professor at UCSD and Research Scientist at MosaicML

University Email
Company Email
Twitter
Github
Medium
LinkedIn
Google Scholar

Prithviraj’s Home Score: 0

Welcome. You have arrived at the home of the Earth King (a.k.a. Prithviraj in Sanskrit). You see a plaque with an inscription below a picture of him at the door. What do you do?

>examine plaque

It reads:

“Well, hello there. I am an Assistant Professor of Computer Science at the University of California, San Diego - leading the 🧋PEARLS Lab🧋 in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE). I am currently not recruiting any students for my lab. More info can be found on my group website.

I’m also a research scientist at Mosaic AI in Databricks. My team is recruiting research scientists and engineers with strong RL/distributed systems experience. Please apply and drop a note to the right email.

I was previously on the Mosaic team in the Allen Institute for AI. I received my PhD in Computer Science from the School of Interactive Computing at the Georgia Institute of Technology, advised by Professor Mark Riedl as a research assistant at the Entertainment Intelligence Lab.

My CV is found here, my list of publication here, and projects here.

I am motivated by the question of how to imbue learning agents with the ability to understand and generate contextually relevant natural language in service of achieving a goal. This work lies primarily at the intersection of Machine Learning, especially Reinforcement Learning, and Natural Language Processing. The core theme of my research involves creating trustworthy and responsible language-based AI agents that are able to: (1) interactively gather and align to human preferences via feedback; and (2) build and use neurosymbolic world models that guide the agent’s actions in grounded environments.

Your score has gone up by 10 points. You open the door and proceed into the house.

Recent Posts
UCSD Student Recruiting

 less than 1 minute read

I have accepted an offer to be an assistant professor at UCSD and will be recruiting PhD students applying in Dec. 2023 and starting in Fall 2024 (more detai...

Job Market

 less than 1 minute read

I’m on the academic job market this cycle! Please reach out to me if you think there is a good fit.

 TWITTER  FEED
© 2024 Prithviraj (Raj) Ammanabrolu. Powered by Jekyll & Minimal Mistakes.

