Professor: Pu Wang 0001
University: UNC - Charlotte
URL: https://webpages.uncc.edu/pwang13
Description: Dr. Pu Wang

Associate Professor

Department of Computer Science
University of North Carolina at Charlotte
9201 University City Blvd, Charlotte, NC 28223-0001

Office: Woodward Hall 205E
Phone: 704-687-6168
Email: pu.wang@uncc.edu

 

Biography
Research
Research Group
Publications
Service
Classes

Biography

Pu Wang received B.Eng degree in Electrical Engineering from Beijing Institute of Technology, China, in 2003, and M.Eng degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Memorial University of Newfoundland , Canada, in 2008. He received the Ph.D. degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA, in August 2013, under the guidance of Professor Ian F. Akyildiz.

Currently, he is an Associate Professor with the Department of Computer Science at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte . Prior to joining UNCC, he was an assistant professor with Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at Wichita State University from 2013 to 2017. His current research interests focus on deep learning and reinforcement learning, with applications in smart sensing, networking, computer vision, Internet of Things, and Cyber-Physical Systems.




Selected Honors and Awards

Best student paper runner-up, IEEE SCC, San Francisco
 

John A. See Innovation Award
 

TPC Highest Ranked Paper of IEEE DySPAN, IEEE Communication Society, Germany
 

BWN Lab Researcher of the Year Award, for his outstanding research achievements throughout the year.
 

Fellow of the School of Graduate Studies in recognition of his outstanding academic achievement throughout a graduate programme, Memorial University of Newfoundland, 2008
 

IEEE Travel Grant for 2007 International Conference on Communications
 


Openings

I am currently looking for self-motivated graduate students willing to work in the area of deep learning for computer vision and smart sensing , reimforcement learning for networking , and computational biomechanics /b>. Requirements: 1) Undergraduate or MS students with degrees in Computer Science/Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Mathematics or related majors.(2) Strong programming and/or mathematical skills. Proficient in deep learning frameworks, e.g., PyTorch (3) Research experience in computer vision and machine learning are preferred. If interested, please send your CV, and transcripts to me at pu.wang@uncc.edu




