Professor: Qiben Yan
University: Michigan State University
URL: https://cse.msu.edu/~qyan
Description: Profile
 
Research Areas
 
Recent News
 
Lab
 
Publications
 
Opportunities
Qiben Yan
Associate Professor

Keep you posted! We create "Security Posts" for you, researchers!
Computer Science and Engineering
Michigan State University
Email: qyan AT msu DOT edu
Office: 3115 Engineering Building
Phone: +1(517)432-3529
Public Key
SEIT Lab - Secure and Intelligent Things Lab
Google Scholar

Learn about what I do
We are always looking for PhD students to join exciting research projects on cyber security!
Please email your CV, Transcripts, Publications (if any) to me for opportunities.
Visiting/exchange scholars and students are also welcome to contact us.



Qiben Yan is an Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at Michigan State University, where he founds and directs the SEIT (Secure and Intelligent Things) Lab. Dr. Yan is a recipient of the NSF CISE Career Research Initiation Initiative (CRII) Award. He currently serves as Associate Editor, IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security (TIFS). Prior to joining academia, he worked in a cybersecurity startup company, Shape Security, in the silicon valley, where he participated in building the first “botwall”. He received a Ph.D. in Computer Science from Virginia Tech, an M.S. and a B.S. degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Fudan University in Shanghai, China.

His research uses AI, acoustics, blockchain technologies for enhancing security of connected devices, networks and systems. His primary research interests are in IoT security, mobile security and privacy, wireless system security, AI security and privacy, and botnet and malware detection. A key thread of his research is the design of secure network infrastructure for Connected Things - including system/device security analysis, anomaly detection system, traffic monitoring and analysis system, attack resilient communication system - to provide security enhancement and protection for the massive IoT systems/networks under cyber attacks. He has been awarded the Best Paper Honorable Mention Award (Best Paper Runner-up) in ACM CCS 2022, Best Paper Award in IEEE SECON 2021 and Best Paper Award in ACM SenSys 2021. He has published papers in top-tier conferences such as CCS, NDSS, USENIX Security, MobiCom, SenSys, INFOCOM, etc. His research has been reported in various high-impact media outlets, including the BBC Radio, Scientific American, Science Daily, Forbes, Popular Mechanics, Gizmodo, The Register, etc. He is a Senior Member of the IEEE and a Member of the ACM.

Research Areas:
IoT Security and Privacy

Wireless physical-layer security; IoT device and platform security; Next generation wireless and spectrum security

Mobile Security

Mobile system security; Mobile malware detection; Mobile Apps security analysis; Mobile privacy.

System Security

AI security; Blockchain; Cyber Threat Intelligence; Differential privacy.

See some of my recent news
Opportunities:

Ph.D. RA/TA openings:

We are looking for self-motivated Ph.D. students to join our group, starting from either Spring or Fall. Students with either EE or CS major are welcome to apply. A successful candidate is expected to carry out research in one of the multiple areas: IoT security, AI security and privacy, autonomous driving security, botnet and malware research, and blockchain.

Candidates are expected to have background in wireless systems, networking, IoT, AI, blockchain, or mobile systems, and should possess a strong motivation towards academic excellence while preparing for years of concentrated research.

Familiarity with some of the following knowledge is a big plus:

- Designing and implementing mobile/IoT applications or wireless systems, on experimental platforms such as software radios, smartphones, etc.
- Modeling networks and systems using AI/machine learning algorithms, optimization algorithms, stochastic models, etc.
- Applying AI or blockchain for real-world applications.
- Background and research experience in security or cryptography.


If you are interested in either position, please send your CV, PS, transcripts, TOEFL and GRE scores, and everything that you believe will help your application to Prof. Qiben Yan in one email.

Visiting scholars:

Visiting/exchange scholars and students who have matching interests and strong research backgrounds are welcome to contact Prof. Qiben Yan for inquiries about position availability.



© Qiben Yan 2023. All rights reserved.

