Professor: Qing Qu 0001
University: University of Michigan
URL: https://qingqu.engin.umich.edu/
Description: Qing Qu
Assistant Professor
About Me
Resume
Publications
People
Teaching
News
Contact
Qing Qu
Assistant Professor
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
qingqu@umich.edu
1301 Beal Avenue
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2122

Qing Qu is an assistant professor in the ECE Division of the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science department of the College of Engineering, University of Michigan – Ann Arbor. He is also affiliated with the Michigan Institute for Data Science (MIDAS), the Michigan Center for Applied and Interdisciplinary Mathematics (MCAIM), and the Michigan Institute for Computational Discovery and Engineering (MICDE).

I received my B.E. degree from Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, in 2011, and obtained my Ph.D. degree from Columbia University with Prof. John Wright in 2018. I was a Moore-Sloan fellow at NYU Center for Data Science from 2018 to 2020. My work has been recognized by a couple of awards, including a Microsoft Ph.D. Fellowship in machine learning, a NSF Career Award in 2022, and an Amazon AWS AI Award in 2023.

My research interest lies in the intersection of signal processing, data science, machine learning, and numerical optimization. Broadly speaking, I am interested in computational methods for learning low-complexity models from high-dimensional data, leveraging tools from machine learning, numerical optimization, and high-dimensional geometry, with applications in imaging sciences and scientific discovery. Recently, my major interest has been in understanding deep representation learning and diffusion models, through the lens of low-dimensional modeling.

For prospective students: My group recruits 1-2 PhD students per year, and I am looking for self-motivated students with aligned research interests to work with. To help identify mutual interests, please fill out this form and send me a short email note with your Resume.

For postdoc: I am looking for postdoc candidates through MIDAS fellow, AI in Science Program, and MICDE Research Scholars Program. The first two programs are typically due in November, and the third program is due in April. Please send me an email with your Resume. If suitable, we can work together on a potential application.

News

Recent Highlights:

Tutorials on nonconvex optimization for deep representation learning (from ACDL’23):
A new short course and full-day tutorial on Learning Nonlinear and Deep Low-Dimensional Representations from High-Dimensional Data.
One of the funding organizers of our new Conference on Parsimony and Learning (CPAL).
Co-organizer of the ECE Communications and Signal Processing Seminar at UMich every Thursday (Videos). Send me an email if you are interested in giving a talk in person.

Upcoming Events:

Invited talk at Advances in Deep Learning Theory of SIAM Annual Meeting (Jul. 18th, 2024)
Co-organizer of Computational Imaging Workshop at IMSI, UChicago (Aug. 5-9th, 2024)
Teaching a high-school summer camp “AI Magic” (Aug. 12-16th, 2024)
Organizing a one-day MIDAS symposium on “Generative AI: From Theory to Scientific Applications” (Sept. 6th, 2024)
Organizing a mini-symposium “Mathematical Principles in Diffusion Models” at SIAM Conference on Mathematics of Data Science (MDS24) (Oct. 21-25th, 2024)
Organizing a session “Mathematics in Generative AI” at Asilomar Conference (Oct. 27-30th, 2024)

Recent News:

Group Member Update: Our group member Dr. Dogyoon Song is joining UC Davis Stats as an assistant professor starting Jul. 2024.
Group Member Update: Our group member Dr. Yutong Wang is joining Illinois Tech CS as an assistant professor starting in Aug. 2024.
Tutorial: Gave a one-day tutorial on “Learning Deep Low-dimensional Models from High-Dimensional Data: From Theory to Practice” at CVPR 2024. (Jun. 2024)
Public Service: Invited to be an Area Chair (AC) of NeurIPS’24. (Jun. 2024)
Paper Acceptance: 7 papers have been accepted to ICML, see the news (May 2024)
The Emergence of Reproducibility and Consistency in Diffusion Models
Compressible Dynamics in Deep Overparameterized Low-Rank Learning & Adaptation (Oral Presentation, top 1.5%)
Neural Collapse in Multi-label Learning with Pick-all-label Loss
A Global Geometric Analysis of Maximal Coding Rate Reduction
Matrix Completion with ReLU Sampling
Generalized Neural Collapse for a Large Number of Classes
Optimal Eye Surgeon: Finding Image Priors Through Sparse Generators at Initialization
Paper Acceptance: Understanding and Improving Transfer Learning of Deep Models via Neural Collapse has been accepted to Transactions on Machine Learning Research (TMLR). (May 2024)
Service: Co-organized of the Midwest Machine Learning Symposium 2024 (MMLS’24) （May 2024)
Tutorial: “Understanding Deep Representation Learning via Neural Collapse” at ICASSP’24 with Prof. Laura Balzano, Dr. Peng Wang, and Prof. Zhihui Zhu, Slides: Lecture-1, Lecture-2 (Apr. 2024)
Paper Release: Sim2Real in Reconstructive Spectroscopy: Deep Learning with Augmented Device-Informed Data Simulation is submitted (Mar. 2024)
Paper Release: Decoupled Data Consistency with Diffusion Purification for Image Restoration is submitted (Mar. 2024)
Invited Talk at UC Davis Math Seminar (Mar. 2024)
Contributed Talk at Information Theory and Applications (ITA) Workshop (Feb. 2024)
Paper Acceptance: our paper Improving Efficiency of Diffusion Models via Multi-Stage Framework and Tailored Multi-Decoder Architectures has been accepted by CVPR, Project Website (Feb. 2024)
Paper Release: Analysis of Deep Image Prior and Exploiting Self-Guidance for Image Reconstruction is submitted (Feb. 2024)
Grant Approval: Received a gift grant from KLA for continued support. (Jan. 2024)
Paper Acceptance: our paper Efficient Compression of Overparameterized Deep Models through Low-Dimensional Learning Dynamics has been accepted by AISTATS’24 (Jan. 2024)
Paper Acceptance: our paper Solving Inverse Problems with Latent Diffusion Models via Hard Data Consistency has been accepted by ICLR’24 as a spotlight (Jan. 2024)
Conference on Parsimony and Learning (CPAL) (Jan. 3rd-6th 2024)
Invited talk at IMS Young Mathematical Scientist Forum – Applied Math, National University of Singapore (NUS) (Jan. 8th – 11th, 2024)

Archived:

Year 2023
Year 2022
Year 2021
Year 2020 and earlier

Recent Talks:

SLowDNN talk: Understanding Deep Neural Networks via Neural Collapse

CSP Seminar Talk: Invariant Low-Dimensional Subspaces in Gradient Descent for Learning Deep Networks

Funding Acknowledgement

Our group acknowledge generous support from the National Science Foundation (NSF), Office of Naval Research (ONR), Amazon Research, KLA Corporation, MICDE, and MIDAS

Michigan Engineering
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Qing Qu
qingqu@umich.edu
1301 Beal Avenue
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2122
LOGIN
© 2024 The Regents of the University of Michigan
Privacy Policy
Campus Safety
Non-Discrimination Policy
About Me
Resume
Publications
People
Teaching
News
Contact
Electrical Engineering & Computer Science
Computer Science & Engineering
Electrical & Computer Engineering

