Professor: Rama Chellappa
University: Johns Hopkins University
URL: https://engineering.jhu.edu/ece/faculty/rama-chellappa
Description: Skip to main content
Secondary Navigation
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Utility Navigation
REQUEST INFO
APPLY
GIVE
Site Navigation
Academics
Accreditation
Admissions
Research
People
News
Alumni and Giving
About
Search
Info For
You are here:
HOME
PRIMARY APPOINTMENT FACULTY
RAMA CHELLAPPA
Rama Chellappa

Bloomberg Distinguished Professor and Interim Co-director of the Data Science and AI Institute

DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL AND COMPUTER ENGINEERING﻿ 
DEPARTMENT OF BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING﻿ 
Play background animation
Pause background animation
CONTACT
rchella4@jhu.edu
RESEARCH AREAS
Computer vision
artificial intelligence
pattern recognition
image and signal processing
machine learning
biometrics
CONNECT
WEBSITE
GOOGLE SCHOLAR

Rama Chellappa, a Bloomberg Distinguished Professor in electrical and computer engineering and biomedical engineering and chief scientist at the Johns Hopkins Institute for Assured Autonomy, is a pioneer in the area of artificial intelligence. Chellappa is also the interim co-director of the Data Science and AI Institute. His work in computer vision, pattern recognition, and machine learning have had a profound impact on areas including biometrics, smart cars, forensics, and 2D and 3D modeling of faces, objects, and terrain. His work in motion capturing and imaging shows promise for future use in health care and medicine.

He joined Johns Hopkins after 29 years at the University of Maryland, where he served lengthy stretches as chair of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and director of the Center for Automation Research. He is a member of Johns Hopkins’ Mathematical Institute for Data Science and the Center for Imaging Science.

Chellappa’s research has shaped the field of facial recognition technology—developing detailed face models based on shape, appearance, texture, and bone and muscle structure. Under a recent program called Janus, he and his team have developed a high-accuracy face recognition system that serves critical needs for federal and commercial sectors. The team has also worked on modeling facial expressions, with potential for a variety of medical applications.

He also is known as an expert in machine learning, a branch of artificial intelligence that instructs computer systems to perform tasks based on patterns and inferences. In one recent experiment, Chellappa and colleagues tested the skills of expert forensic facial examiners against the skills of machines; as it turned out, the best results came when both sides worked together. This research has implications for how machine learning algorithms can help doctors diagnose disease.

Chellappa has also worked on gait analysis, which can apply to an enormous range of uses—everything from diagnosing Parkinson’s disease to human identification at a distance.

Chellappa was elected to National Academy of Engineering in 2023. His book, Can We Trust AI?, was published by the Johns Hopkins University Press in 2022. He is the 2020 recipient of the Jack S. Kilby Signal Processing Medal for his contributions to image and video processing, particularly face recognition. This is one of the top honors from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), where Chellappa is a life fellow and previously served as editor-in-chief of IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence. Among many other honors, Chellappa has also won technical achievement awards from the IEEE Computer Society and the IEEE Signal Processing Society; the latter also awarded him with its highest honor, the Society Award.

He was born and raised in South India, near Chennai, and studied at the University of Madras and the Indian Institute of Science before attending Purdue University in Indiana, which was then building an international reputation for a branch of machine learning known as statistical pattern recognition.

He earned his doctorate in electrical engineering there, studying under mentors including Keinosuke Fukunaga, R.L. Kayshyap, and King Sun-Fu. (Some three decades later, Chellappa won the esteemed award named for Sun-Fu, from the International Association of Pattern Recognition.) His interest in biomedical engineering dates back to these years when he designed a cardiac pacemaker as his capstone project.

During his doctoral studies, he also conducted research at the University of Maryland (UMD) with Azriel Rosenfeld, one of the founding fathers of computer vision. The mentorship launched his career in this field, which trains computers to identify, classify, and understand digital images. Chellappa later joined UMD as a professor in 1991, after 10 years at the University of Southern California.

Related News
VIEW ALL NEWS
New $20M grant will help Johns Hopkins develop technologies for healthy aging

Multicenter collaboration will focus on the use of artificial intelligence to improve long-term health, independence for older people.

Stay Connected
FACEBOOK
TWITTER
INSTAGRAM
YOUTUBE
LINKEDIN
Open site alert
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
ADDRESS
3400 North Charles Street
Baltimore, MD 21218
GET DIRECTIONS
CONTACT
EMAIL:
ECEGRAD@JHU.EDU
Footer Navigation
HISTORY
WHITING SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING 
JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY 
Legal Navigation
Privacy Statement﻿ 
Accessibility﻿ 
University Policies﻿ 
Copyright Compliance Policy﻿ 

2024 Johns Hopkins University. All rights reserved.

