Professor: Ransalu Senanayake
University: Arizona State University
URL: https://search.asu.edu/profile/4843390
Description: ASU websites use cookies to enhance user experience, analyze site usage, and assist with outreach and enrollment. By continuing to use this site, you are giving us your consent to do this. Learn more about cookies on ASU websites in our Privacy Statement.

Ok, I agree
Skip to main content
Report an accessibility problem
ASU Home
My ASU
Colleges and Schools
Sign In
ASU Search
News/Events
Academics
Admission
Research
Athletics
Alumni
Giving
President
About ASU
Ransalu Senanayake
Assistant Professor,
School of Computing and Augmented Intelligence
ransalu@asu.edu
Phone: 000000000
‌
660 S. Mill Avenue CTRPT 203-21
Tempe, AZ 85281
Mail code: 8809
Campus: Tempe
‌
Biography
Research
Teaching
Long Bio

Ransalu Senanayake is the director of the LENS Lab. He is an Assistant Professor in Computer Science at the School of Computing and Augmented Intelligence (SCAI), Arizona State University (ASU). He is a member of the Human, Artificial Intelligence, and Robot Teaming (CHART) under Global Security Initiative (GSI). Previously, he was a postdoctoral scholar in the Machine Learning Group at the Dept. of Computer Science, Stanford University where he worked with Carlos Guestrin, Emily Fox, and David Scheinker. He also worked in the Dept. of Aeronautics & Astronautics Engineering with Mykel Kochenderfer. He completed his PhD in Computer Science in Fabio Ramos' lab at the School of Computer Science in the University of Sydney. He also obtained an MPhil degree in Industrial Engineering from the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology.

Education
Postdoctoral Research Scholar, Machine Learning Group, Stanford University
PhD in Computer Science (Machine Learning and Robotics), University of Sydney
MPhil in Industrial Engineering, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology
Expertise Areas
Computer Vision
Machine Learning
Artificial Intelligence
Robotics
Maps and Locations
Jobs
Directory
Contact ASU
My ASU
Copyright and Trademark
Accessibility
Privacy
Terms of Use
Emergency

