Professor: Rina Dechter
University: Univ. of California - Irvine
URL: http://www.ics.uci.edu/~dechter
Description: Prof. Rina Dechter, Ph.D
Artificial Intelligence
Office: DBH 4232
Phone: 1.949.824.6556
Email: dechter_at_ics.uci.edu
Highlights and News
Large NSF Grant		
Rina Dechter, with Others, Receives a $5M NSF Grant to Improve AI-Based Causal Decision Making

AAAS FELLOW		
7 UCI Researchers Are Elected AAAS Fellows

FACULTY SPOTLIGHT		
Rina Dechter is Pushing the Frontiers of Research

AIJ 2020 CLASSIC PAPER AWARD		
Dechter, Meiri and Pearl received the 2020 AIJ Classic Paper Award for their 1991 paper Temporal Constraint Networks. (Previous recipients of the award can be found here)

DISTINGUISHED PROFESSOR		
A Trio of New Distinguished Professors in ICS

BOOK (2019)		
Second edition of my book: "Reasoning with Probabilistic and Deerministic Graphical Models" just appeared

More
Home
Biographical
Research Overview
My Group
Publications
Selected Talks
Awards
Software
Courses
My Books




Research in my group: Automated reasoning in Artificial Intelligence

My research is in the field of Automated Reasoning in Artificial Intelligence and focused on Graphical Models. Graph based models (e.g., Bayesian and constraint networks, influence diagrams and Markov decision processes) have become a central paradigm for knowledge representation and reasoning in both Artificial Intelligence and Computer Science in general. These models are used to accomplish many science and engineering tasks, such as scheduling, planning and learning, diagnosis and prediction, design, hardware and software verification and bioinformatics. These reasoning problems can be stated as the formal tasks of constraint satisfaction and satisfiability, combinatorial optimization and probabilistic inference. It is well known that these tasks are computationally hard, but research during the past three decades has yielded a variety of principles and techniques for significantly advancing the state of the art. Our approach is to devise methods through the understanding and exploitation of tractable reasoning tasks and use those islands of tractability in the design of general anytime algorithms. As their name implies, anytime methods provide a solution anytime during the processing, with the added provision that the quality of the solution improves if more time is available.

To summarize, my research interests are in the areas of Automated Reasoning, Knowledge-Representation, Planning and Learning.
School of Information and Computer Science
University of California, Irvine, CA 92697-3435
Dr. Rina Dechter
dechter at ics.uci.edu

