Professor: Robert E. Kraut
University: Carnegie Mellon University
URL: http://kraut.hciresearch.org/
Description:  
Home
 
Research
 
Books
 
Articles
 
Courses
 
Biography
 
Videos
 
People
 
Contact
 
Calendar
Robert E. Kraut
HERBERT A. SIMON UNIVERSITY PROFESSOR EMERITUS OF HUMAN COMPUTER INTERACTION

 

Human-Computer Interaction Institute, School of Computer Science


Tepper School of Business

Carnegie Mellon University

Pittsburgh, PA 15213

 

 

ROBERT E. KRAUT

I started my career as a traditional social psychologist, but working in the telecommunications industry for twelve years shifted my focus from disciplines to problems. As a researcher, I have broad interests in the design and social impact of information technologies in our personal lives, in small groups, and in organizations.

I conduct research in the five major areas below. You can see my latest research on these topics by going to my articles or books page.

Online communities
Everyday use of the Internet
Collaboration in small work groups
Technology and conversation
Computers in organizations

My research in a specific area first examines in detail the challenges individuals, groups, and organizations face in performing social tasks. This empirical research can inform the design of new technology to meet some of these challenges. Here I collaborate with computer scientists and engineers. The research comes full circle when we evaluate the usefulness of the new technology.

As an emeritus professor, I no longer do classroom teaching, but actively mentor undergraduate and graduate students. 

CHI 2016 SIGCHI LIFETIME RESEARCH AWARD

Since the dawn of the Internet era, researchers, policy-makers and the general public have questioned how new technology is influencing our psychological well-being. This talk reviews research I’ve done with students and collaborators over the past 18 years to cast light on this question. Our earliest work in the 1990s indicated that more Internet use, independent of type, predicted increases in depression and declines in other measures of well-being.

© 2003-2020 Robert Kraut.

