Professor: Roger B. Dannenberg
University: Carnegie Mellon University
URL: https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~rbd
Description: 	

   Sonic Self-Portrait
   Jazz snapshot
Photo by Amelia Williams.

Roger B. Dannenberg

Emeritus Professor of
  Computer Science, Art & Music
Carnegie Mellon University

Office: Maybe after the pandemic.
  I'm working at home now.
Fax: 412-268-5576
Email: rbd at cs.cmu.edu
Assistant: Christina Contreras

For More Information
Blog
Bibliography
Video Links
Compositions and performances
Nyquist Info, Nyquist Manual
Music software
CMU School of Computer Science
ICMA Home
Electronic Music Foundation
Pittsburgh Jazz Network
Bands, etc.:
Swingtet 8
Links to old information: courses, projects, etc.
Notes, Docs, etc.
Quotes from Richard
Franklin Roosevelt, 1938:
“The liberty of a democracy is not safe if the people tolerate the growth of private power to a point where it becomes stronger than their democratic state itself. That, in its essence, is fascism.” (quote from George Monbiot)
Sarah Chadwick, high school sophomore:
“We should change the names of AR-15s to ‘Marco Rubio’ because they are so easy to buy.” (Twitter)
Donald J. Trump:
“Impeach the Pres.” (Twitter, 11:32AM 15Oct19)
Trump Death Clock
	
News
Jun 6 Panelist at Arts Engagement in an AI World at Indiana University Center for Cultural Affairs, AI Hallucinations roundtable, 2:45-3:45pm (online).
May 9 Panelist at Tech-Enhanced Music Education Symposium (TEMES) at McGill University's Schulich School of Music (online).
Feb 19 Performance of Felicità, composed by Jorge Sastre and Roger Dannenberg, Casa de Misericordia, Valencia, Spain. Two performances.
Jan 24, 2024 I am proud to become a Fellow of the ACM.
Old "news"...


Courses Taught
15-104 Principles of Computing for Creative Practice (prev: fall 2018)
15-322 Introduction to Computer Music (with Jesse Stiles, prev: fall 2018, next: fall 2019)
15-323 Computer Music Systems and Information Processing (prev: spring 2019)
15-110 Principles of Computing (last taught by me fall 2013)
15-410 Operating System Design and Implementation (last taught by me fall 2012)
15-441 Computer Networks (last taught by me fall 2011)
15-213 Introduction to Computer Systems (last taught by me fall 2009)


Research Interests
Computer Music: sound synthesis, interactive performance systems, music representation, music understanding.
Real-Time and Multimedia Systems: especially the problems of constructing reliable, modular, complex interactive systems.
Computer-Based Instruction: using Instructional Design concepts and Multimedia for practical, large curriculum, effective instruction systems.
Research description from the CMU CSD Faculty Research Guide


Projects
Here’s a summary of things I’m working on or would like to be working on.
Computer Music at CMU SCS
Soundcool



True story:

In Pittsburgh called to interview me. At one point the reporter asked if “Roger Dannenberg, trumpeter” would be right, and I said “trumpeter, composer, computer scientist, whatever you want.” The reporter got excited, ”ooh, I like that, ‘trumpeter, composer, computer scientist’. They may edit out ‘computer scientist’ but I'll put it in anyway.”

	
Photo by Alisa.


roger "dot" dannenberg "at" cs "dot" cmu "dot" edu

