Professor: Ronald Rosenfeld
University: Carnegie Mellon University
URL: http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~roni
Description: Skip to main content
Carnegie Mellon University
—
—
—
Search
About
Academics
Research
People
Honors and Awards
Resources
Join Us
Give 
 ›  People  ›  bio  ›  Roni Rosenfeld

Roni Rosenfeld
Professor, Machine Learning, Language Technologies, Computer Science, and Computational Biology
Download Hi-res Photo
Contact
Bio

Roni Rosenfeld (BSc, mathematics and physics, Tel-Aviv University; PhD, computer science, Carnegie Mellon University) is a professor of machine learning, language technologies, computer science, and computational biology in the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He has taught machine learning and statistical language modeling to thousands of undergraduate and graduate students since 1997, and has been a mentor to five post-doctoral students and an advisor to a dozen PhD students and many Masters and undergraduate students. From 2018 till 2024, he served as head of the machine learning department.

Roni’s current research interests are in tracking and forecasting epidemics. The Delphi research group, which he co-founded and co-leads since 2012, has been playing a leading role in the development of epidemic forecasting technology in the U.S., and has been named a National Center for Epidemic Forecasting by the U.S. CDC.

Roni has previously worked in statistical language modeling, speech recognition, human machine speech interfaces, and the use of speech and language technologies to aid international developments. He has published some 150 scientific articles in academic journals and peer reviewed conferences, is a recipient of the Spira Teaching Excellence Award (2017), and twice the recipient of the Allen Newell Medal for Research Excellence (1992, 2022).

Education

PhD, Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University, School of Computer Science, Pittsburgh, PA, United States • 1994

MSc, Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University, School of Computer Science, Pittsburgh, PA, United States • 1991

BSc, Mathematics and Physics, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel • 1985

Research

Current:

Forecasting Epidemics: The long term vision of our Delphi research group is to make epidemiological forecasting as universally accepted and useful as weather forecasting is today. As was the case with weather forecasting, this will likely take a long time. In the shorter term, we select high value epidemiological forecasting targets (currently Influenza and Dengue); create baseline forecasting methods for them; establish metrics for measuring and tracking forecasting accuracy; estimate the limits of forecastability for each target; and identify new sources of data that could be helpful to the forecasting goal.

Past (no longer accepting students):

Information and Communication Technologies for Development (ICT4D), and specifically Spoken Language Technologies for Development (SLT4D), which is the term we coined for our own subfield of ICT4D: finding ways to use spoken language technologies (like automatic speech recognition, speech synthesis, and human-machine dialog systems) to aid socio-economic development around the world.

Machine Learning for Social Good (ML4SG): We continuously seek problems in non-profits and government organizations, domestically and abroad, which can benefit from machine learning solutions, and match them with suitable teams of students and supervising faculty. If your organization could use free machine learning or data science expertise to help improve its societal impact, please contact us. Best cases are those where the potential for societal impact is evident, the questions are well defined, and significant relevant data is available. Otherwise, we can work with you to get your problem ready for our students. This initiative is now overseen by Prof. Rayid Ghani.

Data Numeracy for All: I believe that universal data numeracy is as important in the 21st century as universal literacy was in the 20th. We need to increase the understanding of (and comfort with) data in all segments of society. I am interested in devising effective ways of doing that.undefinedundefined

Publications

All publications, including:

Computational Epidemiology and Computational Biology
Spoken Language Technologies for Development
Human-Machine Speech Communication
Statistical/Machine Learning Methods in Speech and Language Processing
Download Long CV
Download Short CV
Download Short Bio
Download High-Res Photo
Visit Delphi Research Group Website
View Teaching
Current postdocs and students
Jingjing Tang

CompBio, Epi-forecasting

Ananya Joshi

CSD, Epi-forecasting

Ruiqi Lyu

CompBio, Epi-forecasting

Graduated PhD students
Aaron Rumack (MLD, epi-forecasting)
Logan Brooks (CSD, MLD, epi-forecasting)
David Farrow (CompBio, viral evolution + epi-forecasting)
Ali Raza (LTI, ICT4D)
Chuang Wu (CompBio, viral genotype-phenotype mapping)
Jahanzeb Sherwani (CSD, ICT4D)
Yong Lu (CSD, CompBio)
Dan Bohus (CSD, dialog systems)
Stefanie Tomko (LTI, speech communication)
Jerry (Xiaojin) Zhu (LTI, MLD, semi-supervised learning)
Lin Chase (RI, speech recognition)
Past postdocs
Aaron Rumack (epi-forecasting)
Logan Brooks (epi-forecasting)
Andy Walsh (computational virology)
Xiaojin Wang (machine learning)
Stan F. Chen (language modeling)
Pierre DuPont (language modeling)
My Favorite Quotes

Machine Learning Department
School of Computer Science
5000 Forbes Avenue
Gates Hillman Center, 8th Floor
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Questions?: Contact us
Get Directions

Legal Infowww.cmu.edu
© 2024 Carnegie Mellon University
 
   
 
—
—
—
About
toggle About section
Academics
toggle Academics section
Research
toggle Research section
People
toggle People section
Honors and Awards
toggle Honors and Awards section
Resources
Join Us
Give 
Calendar
Info for Current Students
toggle Info for Current Students section
Wellness Network
toggle Wellness Network section
ML@CMU Blog 

