Professor: Rong Ge 0001
University: Duke University
URL: https://users.cs.duke.edu/~rongge
Description: Home	Research	Publications	Teaching

	
	

I am now an assistant professor at the Computer Science Department of Duke University.

I got my Ph.D. from the Computer Science Department of Princeton University. My advisor is Sanjeev Arora. I was a post-doc at Microsoft Research, New England. 




News

Teaching: Due to COVID-19 situations, I will no longer be teaching my graduate course Algorithmic Aspects of Machine Leanring 2020 Fall. I will be co-teaching COMPSCI 330 with Debmalya Panigrahi on both 2020 Fall and 2021 Spring semesters, and we will also be co-teaching a graduate seminar course in 2021 Spring.

Not news anymore but check my book with Majid Janzamin, Anima Anandkumar, Jean Kossafi on tensor decompositions. Also check the draft on a theory of deep learning book organized by Sanjeev Arora.

I visited IAS for the Special Year on Optimization, Statistics, and Theoretical Machine Learning.



My Research
I am broadly interested in theoretical computer science and machine learning. Modern machine learning algorithms such as deep learning try to automatically learn useful hidden representations of the data. How can we formalize hidden structures in the data, and how do we design efficient algorithms to find them? My research aims to answer these questions by studying problems that arise in analyzing text, images and other forms of data, using techniques such as non-convex optimization and tensor decompositions. See the Research page for more details.

My thesis: Provable Algorithms for Machine Learning Problems




Students & Post-docs

Current PhD students:
Abraham Frandsen
Xiang Wang
Keerti Anand (co-advised with Debmalya Panigrahi)
Chenwei Wu
Mo Zhou
Muthu Chidambaram (upcoming)

Post-docs:
Holden Lee (with Jianfeng Lu)
Yu Cheng (with many others in algorithms group, now faculty at UIC)





Selected Publications

How to Escape Saddle Points Efficiently

with Chi Jin, Praneeth Netrapalli, Sham M. Kakade, Michael I. Jordan. In ICML 2017.


Matrix Completion has No Spurious Local Minimum

with Jason D. Lee and Tengyu Ma. In NIPS 2016. Best Student Paper.


A Practical Algorithm for Topic Modeling with Provable Guarantees

with Sanjeev Arora, Yoni Halpern, David Mimno, Ankur Moitra, David Sontag, Yichen Wu, Michael Zhu, in ICML 2013


Tensor decompositions for learning latent variable models

with Anima Anandkumar, Daniel Hsu, Sham M. Kakade, Matus Telgarsky. In JMLR Vol 15.



Workshops STOC2017, STOC2018


Contact

Email:	rongge AT cs DOT duke DOT edu
Tel:	+1 (919) 660-7330
Mail:	Duke University
Campus Box 90129
308 Research Drive (LSRC Building)
Room D226 Durham, NC 27708 USA




