Professor: Ruzena Bajcsy
University: University of Pennsylvania
URL: https://www.grasp.upenn.edu/people/ruzena-bajcsy
Description: About
Academics
Research
Innovation & Engagement
About
History
GRASP Facilities
News
Seminars & Events
GRASP on Robotics
Resources for Current Members
Sponsorships & Donations
Contact
People
Alumni
Faculty
Staff
Students
Spotlight Videos
Master’s Degree Program
Prospective Students
Application Information
Current Students
Resources for Incoming Master’s Students
Accelerated Master’s
International Students
Curriculum Information
Robotics Master’s FAQs
Academics
Faculty Advisors
PhD
Research
Research Areas
Research Groups
Projects
Publications
Industry Connections
Engagement
GRASP Corporate Affiliate Program
Where Our Alumni Are Employed
K-12 Outreach
Programs
Virtual GRASP Demo Videos
Innovation & Engagement
GRASP at PERCH
Start-Ups
Social Implications of Weaponized Robotics
People

FACULTY

Ruzena Bajcsy

GRASP Founder & Faculty Member until '01 - Returned to Penn '21

 Website

Ruzena Bajcsy is the NEC Distinguished Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Berkeley. She was the founding director of the Center for Information Technology Research in the Interest of Society (CITRIS) in 2001, a multicampus organization comprising 4 campuses: UC Berkeley, UC Davis, UC Santa Cruz, and UC Merced. As part of her activities in CITRIS, and together with the University of California Center for the Humanities, she played a founding role in establishing a program of Digital Humanities.

Before joining UC Berkeley, she headed the Computer and Information Science and Engineering Directorate at the National Science Foundation (1999–2001).

From 1972 to 2001 she was a professor in the Computer and Information Science Department at the University of Pennsylvania, where she established in 1978 the General Robotics, Automation, Sensing, and Perception (GRASP) Lab. As director of the GRASP lab she fostered interdisciplinary research activities and attracted faculty from electrical and mechanical engineering as well as psychology/cognitive science and of course computer science.

Throughout her 28 years at UPenn she worked on robotics research, including computer vision, tactile perception, and in general the problem of system identification. She also worked on medical imaging, and developed with her students a digital anatomy atlas coupled with elastic matching algorithms that made it possible to automatically identify anatomic structures of the brain, first in X-ray tomography, later with MRI and positron image tomography. Use of this technology is now standard in medical practice.

Dr. Bajcsy is a member of the National Academy of Engineering (1997) and National Academy of Medicine (1995) as well as a fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) and the American Association for Artificial Intelligence (AAAI). In 2001 she received the ACM/AAAI Allen Newell Award, and in November 2002 she was named one of the 50 most important women in Discover Magazine. She is the recipient of the Benjamin Franklin Medal for Computer and Cognitive Sciences (2009) and the IEEE Robotics and Automation Award (2013) for her contributions in the field of robotics and automation.

Her current research is in the use of robotic technology, namely measuring and extracting noninvasively kinematic and dynamic parameters of individual in order to assess their physical movement capabilities or limitations. If there are limitations, her students have designed assistive devices that can compensate for the lack of kinematic agility and /or physical strength.

News +
News

FACULTY NEWS

GRASP Laboratory’s Founder, Dr. Ruzena Bajcsy, is Awarded UC Berkeley’s Highest Honor

September 27, 2023

GRASP NEWS

The Nuts and Bolts of GRASP at ICRA 2022

June 1, 2022

FACULTY NEWS

GRASP NEWS

International Women’s Day: In Conversation with Professor Ruzena Bajcsy

May 22, 2022

FACULTY NEWS

GRASP NEWS

GRASP Lab founder Ruzena Bajcsy, Susan Davidson & Duncan Watts Elected 2021 AAAS Fellows

January 31, 2022

GRASP Laboratory
Levine Hall 4th Floor
University of Pennsylvania
3330 Walnut Street
Philadelphia, PA 19104-6228

© 2024 GRASP Lab. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy

Web Design by Media Proper

