Professor: Samuel R. Bowman
University: New York University
URL: https://www.nyu.edu/projects/bowman
Description: Sam Bowman

Home

Papers

Classes

FAQ

People (ML²)

NYU Web Accessibility Feedback Form

Basics

Member of Technical Staff
Anthropic

Associate Professor of Data Science, Linguistics, & Computer Science
Co-PI, Alignment Research Group, ML² Group & CILVR Lab
(on research leave Summer 2022–?)
New York University

PhD 2016, Stanford NLP Group & Stanford Linguistics

Interests

During an extended research leave from NYU (2022 through at least 2025), I'm spending most of my time leading a research group at Anthropic, working on language model alignment and evaluation. I'm continuing to advise research at NYU during this time, but am not accepting new students.

At NYU, my group studies neural network language models, with a focus on alignment, evaluation, and (at times) questions in linguistic syntax and semantics.

I think you should join Giving What We Can.

Contact

If we haven't been in contact previously, please look through this FAQ before emailing me. You can reach me at bowman@nyu.edu.

News

I have a slightly-opinionated survey paper on the current state of research on LLMs: Eight Things to Know about Large Language Models.
I'm organizing a new AI safety research group at NYU, and I wrote up a blog post explaining what we're up to and why.
I got tenure and was promoted to associate professor! Thanks to the many, many people who made this possible.
I'm excited about our large specialist-written QuALITY (multiple-choice) and SQuALITY (long-text answer) benchmarks for machine reading comprehension over long input texts. Both are available now, and QuALITY was presented at NAACL.
I have new funding for data collection/crowdsourcing work from the NSF CAREER program, from Google's Collabs program, and from Open Philanthropy. Thanks to everyone who reviewed the proposals!
I joined the Department of Computer Science at NYU's Courant Institute as an associated faculty member, in addition to my primary appointment in Linguistics and Data Science.

