Professor: Santosh Kumar 0001
University: University of Memphis
URL: https://www.memphis.edu/cs/people/faculty_pages/santosh-kumar.php
Description: Skip to main content
Search
Menu
DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE
About
News & Events
Future Students
Current Students
Research
People
Outreach
Giving
Canvas
umMail
myMemphis
Directories
Apply
Visit
Safety & Security
Give
Contact

PEOPLE
FULL-TIME FACULTY
AFFILIATE FACULTY
PART-TIME INSTRUCTORS
STAFF
POSTDOCTORAL FELLOWS & RESEARCHERS
DEPARTMENT ADVISORY BOARD
RETIRED FACULTY
ALUMNI
TAKE ACTION
CAREER PATHS
DEGREE PROGRAMS
COURSES
CONTACT US
FOLLOW US ONLINE
Facebook
LinkedIn
Home
Computer Science 
People 
Faculty Pages 
Santosh Kumar
Santosh Kumar
Director, NIH mDOT Center, Director, MD2K Center of Excellence, and Lillian and Morrie Moss Chair of Excellence Professor in Computer Science
PHONE
901.678.2487
EMAIL
Santosh.Kumar@memphis.edu
FAX
901.678.1506
OFFICE
Dunn Hall 319
OFFICE HOURS
Call for hours

Degree:
PhD, Computer Science, The Ohio State University, 2006

Teaching Interests:
Wireless sensor networks, wireless networks, network design and performance analysis, operations research

Research Interests:
Artificial intelligence (AI) for wearables, mobile sensor big data, sensor-guided behavioral interventions on wearables, behavioral privacy, mobile health (mHealth)

Personal Website:
https://mdotcenter.org/santosh/

Google Scholar

Dr. Santosh Kumar joined the Department in Fall 2006 after completing his PhD at The Ohio State University, where his dissertation was selected for the Presidential Fellowship award. In 2010, he was selected as one of America's ten most brilliant scientists under the age of 38 (called the "Brilliant Ten") by Popular Science magazine, becoming the first person in the Mid-South region to receive this honor. At the University of Memphis, he received an Early Career Research Award in 2008, the Faudree Professorship in 2011, and Distinguished Research Award in 2013. In 2015, he was promoted to full professor and named Tennessee’s first chair of excellence in Computer Science.

Dr. Kumar’s research focusses on mobile health (or mHealth). He and his students have developed computational models to infer human health and behavior such as stress, conversation, smoking, craving, brushing, flossing, and cocaine use from wearable sensor data. Dr. Kumar's research works appear in highly-selective publication venues in computer science such as ACM UbiComp, ACM CHI, ACM MobiCom, ACM SenSys, ACM IPSN, ICML, IEEE INFOCOM, and several ACM and IEEE Transactions journals. His publications are widely cited, at an average of 70 citations per article.

Dr. Kumar leads several large multidisciplinary projects in mHealth funded by both National Institutes of Health (NIH) and National Science Foundation (NSF). He currently leads ten federally-funded grants worth over $18 million. It includes multiple R01’s from NIH and a national Center of Excellence on Mobile Sensor Data-to-Knowledge (MD2K) funded by the Big Data-to-Knowledge (BD2K) initiative from NIH that involves over 20 scientists in computing, engineering, behavioral science, and medicine from 12 universities. This is complemented by a $4 million NSF grant from its data cyberinfrastructure program.

As a leading expert on mobile health, Dr. Kumar is frequently invited to chair national meetings on mobile health and speak at national and international meetings in both computing and health. In 2013, he was invited to speak at the White House on the future of biosensors. In 2015, he was invited by NSF to speak about his career to aspiring investigators in smart health as a role model scientist.

Admissions

Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour

Academics

Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
Canvas

Athletics

gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media

Research

Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research

Support UofM

Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations

Administrative Support

President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology
Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation
 

Follow UofM Online

University of Memphis Instagram page
University of Memphis Facebook page
University of Memphis Twitter page
University of Memphis Youtube page
University of Memphis LinkedIn page
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright © 2023 The University of Memphis
Important Notice
Last Updated: 7/8/24
The University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000
Web Accessibility Assistance

The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 

The University of Memphis uses cookies in order to enhance your website experience. Visit our Website’s Cookie Policy for more information on how the UofM uses cookies. I understand that by clicking “I agree” and/or continuing to use this website, I agree to the UofM’s use of cookies. More information >

I Agree

