Professor: Sewoong Oh
University: University of Washington
URL: http://swoh.web.engr.illinois.edu/
Description:  	
Sewoong Oh

Professor, Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering, University of Washington
Staff Research Scientist, Google

sewoong@cs.washington.edu
Bill & Melinda Gates Center, room 207
University of Washington
Seattle, WA 98195


News

Check out our new DataComp on language models, a benchmark for fostering innovation in data-centric research.

Congratulations to Eric Frankel (co-advised with Lillian Ratliff) on the 2024 NSF Graduate Research Fellowship.

Excited to be a part of the new AI Institute for Agent-based Cyber Threat Intelligence and OperatioN (ACTION) (led by Giovanni Vigna starting 2023) with a great team of colleagues.

Congratulations to Thao Nguyen on the 2023 UW/META AI Mentorship Program.

Congratulations to Jonathan Hayase on the 2022 NSF Graduate Research Fellowship.

Excited to be a part of the new AI Institute for future edge networks and distributed intelligence (AI-EDGE) (led by Ness Shroff starting October 1st 2021) with a great team of colleagues.

Congratulations to Xiyang Liu and Mohammad Vahid Jamali on the Qualcomm Innovation Fellowship 2021.

Excited to be a part of the new NSF AI Institute on Foundations of Machine Learning (IFML) (led by Adam Klivans and Alex Dimakis starting September 1st 2020) with a great team of colleagues at UW, UT Austin, MSR, and Wichita State University. UW news article

Together with Hyeji Kim and Sreeram Kannan, I had the pleasure of giving a tutorial on ‘‘Information Theory and Deep Learning: an Emerging Interface’’ at ISIT June 2018 at Vail, Colorado. Here are the Slides. Here is a link to a video recording.

Find out more about PacGAN, our new principled apporach to mitigate mode collapse in training Generative Adversarial Networks. slides and video recording of a talk I gave at Princeton is now available.

About

Sewoong Oh is a Professor at the Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering at the University of Washington. Previous to joining University of Washington in 2019, he was at the department of Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering at University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign since 2012. He received his PhD from the department of Electrical Engineering at Stanford University in 2011, under the supervision of Andrea Montanari. Following his PhD, he worked as a postdoctoral researcher at Laboratory for Information and Decision Systems (LIDS) at MIT, under the supervision of Devavrat Shah.

Sewoong's research interest is in foundations of machine learning in topics including differential privacy, secure and robust machine learning, and federated learning. He was co-awarded the ACM SIGMETRICS best paper award in 2015, NSF CAREER award in 2016, ACM SIGMETRICS rising star award in 2017, and GOOGLE Faculty Research Awards in 2017 and 2020.

Here are my CV and a list of Publications.

Teaching
Group

Current


Gavin Brown (PostDoc)


Xiyang Liu


Raghav Somani


Jonathan Hayase


Melih Yilmaz (coadvised with Bill Noble)


Thao Nguyen (coadvised with Ludwig Schmidt)


Eric Frankel (coadvised with Lillian Ratliff)


Anshul Nasery


Divyansh Pareek (coadvised with Simon Du)


Rui Xin (coadvised with Pang Wei Koh)

Alumni


PhD 2022, Kiran Thekumparampil (now at Amazon)


PhD 2019, Weihao Gao (co-advised with Pramod Viswanath, now at ByteDance)


PhD 2018, Ashish Khetan (now at Amazon)


PhD 2016, Peter Kairouz (co-advised with Pramod Viswanath, now at Google)


PostDoc 2022, Shiyu Liang (now assistant professor at Shanghai Jiao Tong University)


PostDoc 2019, Jungseul Ok (now assistant ptofessor at PosTech)


PostDoc 2018, Hyeji Kim (co-advised with Pramood Viswanath, now assistant professor at UT Austin)


BS/MS 2023, Rishi Jha (next position: Cornell PhD program)


BS 2019, Harshay Shah (next position: MIT PhD program)


Visiting student 2014-2016, Giulia Fanti (now assistant professor at CMU)


Page generated 2024-07-16 23:38:00 PDT, by jemdoc.

