Professor: Sham M. Kakade
University: Harvard University
URL: https://homes.cs.washington.edu/~sham
Description: Skip to main content
HARVARD.EDU
Sham M. Kakade
Home
Bio
Publications
News
People

Harvard University

Co-director of the Kempner Institute
Gordon McKay Professor of Computer Science and Statistics

 

Research
I am a full-stack researcher in machine learning and AI, focusing on the engineering, scientific, and mathematical aspects of deep learning. My focus is on developing efficient and practical algorithms for foundation models and real-world AI applications. My current research interests include: (i) optimization with an emphasis on real engineering challenges, (ii) exploring the foundational science and mathematical underpinnings of deep learning, and (iii) advancing the usefulness of LLMs and generative AI. These efforts include understanding how to scale AI architectures and algorithms, taking into account hardware constraints and data composition; exploring the role of RL in language learning and communication and examining the impact of scale on deep learning optimization.
Prospective Students
I am actively seeking students with a strong background in applied deep learning or a keen interest in acquiring these skills. As co-director of the newly-established Kempner Institute, we offer substantial computational resources for cutting-edge research. If you're passionate about driving innovation in these domains or interested in a blend of applied and fundamental research, I encourage you to apply to Harvard!
Book
Reinforcement Learning: Theory and Algorithms

Alekh Agarwal, Nan Jiang, Wen Sun, and I are writing a monograph on Reinforcement Learning. We will be periodically making updates to the draft. Also, see current course CS 6789: Foundations of Reinforcement Learning.

News
Kakade to Co-Lead Autonomous Decision Research at New NSF AI Institute
May 4, 2023

Kempner Institute Co-Director Sham Kakade will help lead an effort to develop autonomous decision-making tools that aid in disaster and public health management as part of...

Read more
about Kakade to Co-Lead Autonomous Decision Research at New NSF AI Institute
New University-wide institute to integrate natural, artificial intelligence
December 7, 2021
Harvard University on Tuesday launched the Kempner Institute for the Study of Natural and Artificial Intelligence, a new University-wide initiative standing at the intersection of neuroscience and artificial intelligence, seeking fundamental principles that underlie both human and machine intelligence. Read more
about New University-wide institute to integrate natural, artificial intelligence
Policy Optimization in Reinforcement Learning
December 7, 2020
Martha White, Nicolas Le Roux, and I gave a NeurIPS 2020 tutorial on direct policy optimization methods in reinforcement learning. We have collab notebooks to demonstrate all the theoretical ideas! Read more
about Policy Optimization in Reinforcement Learning
NSF AI Institute on the Foundations of Machine Learning
August 26, 2020
I'll be a part of this NSF AI Institute on the Foundations of Machine Learning. It is headed by UT Austin and UW is a part! See Allen School News and... Read more
about NSF AI Institute on the Foundations of Machine Learning
UW receives a Tripods Phase 2 grant from the NSF
August 24, 2017
UW received a Tripods Phase 2 grant from the NSF. Read how I helped us set this up in phase 1. Read more
about UW receives a Tripods Phase 2 grant from the NSF
Projects
MusicNet

MusicNet is a collection of 330 freely-licensed classical music recordings, together with over 1 million annotated labels indicating the precise time of each note in every recording, the instrument that plays each note, and the note's position in the metrical structure of the composition.
Discovering Latent Structure in Societal-Scale Data

Recently, the rapid proliferation of mobile phones and other digital devices can create an unparalleled opportunity to observe and understand the rapidly changing structure of communities in developing and conflict-affected states.
Cover Tree for Nearest Neighbor Search

A Cover Tree is a datastructure helpful in calculating the nearest neighbor of points given only a metric.
COVID19 Reports and CommonCircle

There emerged a consensus strategy for suppressing COVID19 (and future pandemics) based on testing, tracing, and supported isolation (TTSI). This project involved efforts both on digital contact tracing along with "rapid response" whitepapers to help guide public policy.
Activities and Services
Committee for the ACM Prize in Computing
Committee for the Sloan Research Fellowships in Computer Science (active).
Co-organizer for the Simons Symposium on New Directions in Theoretical Machine Learning, May 2019.
Co-organizer for the Simons Foundations of Machine Learning, Winter, 2017
Co-chair for the Simon's Representational Learning workshop, March, 2017
Co-chair for the IMS-MSR Workshop: Foundations of Data Science, June 11th, 2015.
Steering committee for the fourth New England Machine Learning Day, May 18th, 2015.
Program committee for the third New England Machine Learning Day, May 13th, 2014.
Co-chair for New York Computer Science and Economics Day V, Dec 3rd, 2012.
Program committee for the first New England Machine Learning Day, May 16th, 2012.
Program chair for the 24th Annual Conference on Learning Theory (COLT 2011) which took place in Budapest, Hungary, on July 9-11, 2011.
Current Courses
CS/Stat 184: Introduction to Reinforcement Learning
Tutorials
Tensor Decompositions for Learning Latent Variable Models, AAAI 2014
Tensor Decompositions Methods for Learning Latent Variable Models, ICML 2013
Past Courses
CS 6789: Foundations of Reinforcement Learning, guest teacher, Fall 2020
CSE 599m: Reinforcement Learning and Bandits, Spring 2019
CSE 446: Machine Learning, Winter 2019
CSE 547 / STAT 548: Machine Learning for Big Data, Spring 2018
CSE 446: Machine Learning, Winter 2018
CSE 547 / STAT 548: Machine Learning for Big Data, Spring 2017
CSE 546: Machine Learning, Autumn 2016
CSE 547 / STAT 548: Machine Learning for Big Data, Spring 2016
CSE 546: Machine Learning, Autumn 2015
Stat 928: Statistical Learning Theory
Stat 991: Multivariate Analysis, Dimensionality Reduction, and Spectral Methods
Large Scale Learning
Learning Theory

Email: sham [at] seas [dot] harvard [dot] edu

150 Western Avenue
Science and Engineering Complex
Allston MA 02135

css-theme
css-home
css-release-2022-01
Admin Login
Copyright © 2024 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement

