Professor: Shiqian Ma
University: Univ. of California - Davis
URL: https://www.math.ucdavis.edu/~sqma
Description: Home
Biography
Publications
Teaching
Softwares
Activities
	
Shiqian Ma
 	

Shiqian Ma
Associate Professor
Department of Mathematics
UC Davis



Also affiliated to:
Graduate Group in Applied Math
Electrical and Computer Engineering Graduate Program
Center for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence Research (CeDAR)
UC Davis TETRAPODS Institute of Data Science (UCD4IDS)

CV (updated 06/2022)
News

I am currently on leave from UC Davis. My new webpage is here

I am an Area Chair of NeurIPS 2022.

I am an Area Chair of ICML 2022.

In the Fall quarter 2021, my group will be running a graduate-level reading course on Foundations of Reinforcement Learning. We will study two books: http://incompleteideas.net/book/the-book-2nd.html and https://rltheorybook.github.io.

Our codes for solving large-scale linear programming using ADMM-based interior-point method can be downloaded here. This is the code asscoiated with our paper An ADMM-Based Interior-Point Method for Large-Scale Linear Programming coauthored with Tianyi Lin, Yinyu Ye and Shuzhong Zhang. Any comments are welcome!

I organized a minisymposium in SIAM Conference on Optimization 2021 that features recent advances in Riemannian optimization. We have 12 speakers who are leading experts and active researchers in this field, including: Session 1: Nicolas Boumal (EPFL), Shixiang Chen (TAMU), Bin Gao (UCLouvain), Minhui Huang (UC Davis); Session 2: Anthony Man-Cho So (CUHK), Jianze Li (Shenzhen Research Institute of Big Data), Hiroyuki Sato (Kyoto University), Wen Huang (Xiamen University); Session 3: Teng Zhang (UCF), Sam Davanloo (OSU), Jiaxiang Li (UC Davis), and myself.

Two papers were accepted by ICML 2021. Congratulations to my student Minhui Huang!

I joined the editorial board of Journal of Scientific Computing

I am an Area Chair of ICML 2021.

Our weekly departmental MADDD (Math of Data and Decisions at Davis) seminar continues in the Spring quarter 2021, and all talks are online via Zoom. Please check the schedule and speakers’ information here.

Research Interests

Methodologies: Optimization; Operations Research

Applications: Data Science; Machine Learning; Statistics; Signal Processing; Image Processing; Bioinformatics

Contact

Office: Rm 3141, Math Science Building

Mailing address:
Department of Mathematics
University of California
One Shields Avenue
Davis, CA 95616

Email: sqma at ucdavis.edu

Page generated 2022-09-16 22:11:56 PDT, by jemdoc.

