Professor: Shuiwang Ji
University: Texas A&M University
URL: http://people.tamu.edu/~sji
Description: Home
Publications
Teaching
Services
Awards
Resources
Openings
	




 	
Shuiwang Ji


Professor
Presidential Impact Fellow
Chancellor EDGES Fellow
Director, The RAISE Initiative

Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Texas A&M University
305 Peterson Bldg., 435 Nagle St.
College Station, TX 77843-3112
Phone: (979) 458-1547; Fax: (979) 845-1420
E-mail: 
Google Scholar | Tweets | GitHub | LinkedIn
The last name: Ji

News

Dr. Ji is leading the RAISE Initiative.

The DIVE Lab has four papers accepted to ICML 2024.

The DIVE Lab has four papers accepted to ICLR 2024.

Limei Wang is named an EECS rising star.

The DIVE Lab has five papers accepted to NeurIPS 2023.

The AI4Science paper is released. [Paper] [GitHub] [Website]

Brief Biography

Dr. Ji is currently a Professor in the Department of Computer Science & Engineering, Texas A&M University, directing the DIVE Lab. In research, Dr. Ji strives to seek synergies between foundational and use-inspired themes. His foundational research centers on developing innovative models and algorithms in the fields of machine learning, geometric deep learning, language models and agents. His use-inspired research aims at tackling challenges in various scientific and engineering disciplines, including physics-informed modeling and simulations, biology, drug discovery, quantum physics and chemistry, materials science, molecular dynamics and simulation, fluid dynamics, and partial differential equations, among others.

Dr. Ji is leading the RAISE Initiative, aiming at promoting collaborations among foundational AI research, AI for science, and AI for engineering.

Dr. Ji received the National Science Foundation CAREER Award in 2014. Currently, he serves as an Associate Editor for IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence (TPAMI) and ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR). He regularly serves as an Area Chair for International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), and Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS). Dr. Ji is an advisory board member of the Learning on Graphs Conference (LoG).

Dr. Ji achieved the highest ranking in the middle-school exit exam at the provincial level in China. He entered graduate school without high-school and college education, and eventually received the Ph.D. degree in Computer Science from Arizona State University in 2010, advised by Prof. Jieping Ye.

Dr. Ji is a Fellow of IEEE and AIMBE, and a Distinguished Member of ACM.

DIVE Lab
 	

AIRS: Artificial Intelligence Research for Science
DIG: Dive into Graphs


Logo by Zhao Xu

