Professor: Shuo Li 0001
University: Case Western Reserve University
URL: https://case.edu/medicine/ccir/faculty/shuo-li
Description: Skip to main content
Go to case.edu
School of Medicine
CWRU Center for Imaging Research
	
Search
	
About
Imaging Research Core
Resources
Funding Opportunities
News Articles
HOME  FACULTY  SHUO LI
Shuo Li, PhD
Email
shuo.li11@case.edu
Professor, Biomedical Engineering, Case School of Engineering, School of Medicine
Professor, Computer Data Science, Case School of Engineering
Member, Cancer Imaging Program, Case Comprehensive Cancer Center
Research Information
Research Interests

Dr. Li is a global leader in conducting multi-disciplinary research to enable artificial intelligence (AI) in clinical imaging. He is an academic AI scientist with a background in machine learning, medical data analytics, and imaging. His current research focuses on the development of image-centered AI systems. These systems are designed to solve the most challenging clinical and fundamental data analytics problems in various fields, including cardiology, radiology, urology, surgery, rehabilitation, and cancer. He emphasizes innovations in multiple learning schemes such as deep, regression, reinforcement, adversarial, sparse, spectral, and manifold learning. Dr. Li serves as a committee member for multiple highly influential conferences and societies. He is most notable for his role on the prestigious board of directors of the MICCAI Society, a position he held from 2015 to 2024, and as the general chair of the MICCAI 2022 conference. With over 200 publications, Dr. Li has also acted as the editor for six Springer books and is an associate editor for several prestigious journals. He has received numerous awards from GE, various institutes, and international organizations throughout his career.

Learn more about Shuo Li at Digital Imaging Group of London.

Publications
Towards Accurate and Robust Domain Adaptation Under Multiple Noisy Environments. R Zhao, X Chen, Z Chen, S Li. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 2022
United Adversarial Learning for Liver Tumor Segmentation and Detection of Multi-modality Non-contrast MRI. J Zhao, D Li, X Xiao, F Accorsi, H Marshall, T Cossetto, D Kim, ... Medical Image Analysis 73, 102154, 2022
Evaluation and Comparison of Accurate Automated Spinal Curvature Estimation Algorithms with Spinal Anterior-posterior X-Ray Images: The AASCE2019 Challenge. L Wang, C Xie, Y Lin, HY Zhou, K Chen, D Cheng, F Dubost, B Collery, ... Medical Image Analysis, 2022

View ful list of publications

© 2024 Case Western Reserve University

10900 Euclid Ave. Cleveland, Ohio 44106

216.368.2000
Legal Notice | Privacy Policy
Title IX Notice of Non-Discrimination

CWRU CENTER FOR IMAGING RESEARCH
Campus Location:

University Hospitals - Wearn Building, Room B41
11100 Euclid Ave.
Cleveland, OH 44106

Mailing Address:

10900 Euclid Ave.
Cleveland, OH 44106

Phone: 216.844.4963

Email: ccir@case.edu

Site Feedback

SOCIAL MEDIA
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
CWRU LINKS
Apply to CWRU
Give Now
Visit Campus
University Directory

