Professor: Shuvra S. Bhattacharyya
University: University of Maryland - College Park
URL: https://www.umiacs.umd.edu/people/ssb
Description: Jump to Navigation

 

Home
People
Research
About Us
Resources
Shuvra Bhattacharyya
Professor
2311 A. V. Williams Bldg.
(301) 405-3638
Academic Web Page
Research Group(s): 
MC2 - Maryland Cybersecurity Center
Education: 
Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley (Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences)
Special Awards/Honors: 
IEEE Fellow, Finland Distinguished Professor (FiDiPro), Nokia Distinguished Lecturer (Finland), National Science Foundation (NSF) CAREER Award, and Fulbright Senior Specialist (Austria and Germany)
Biography: 

Shuvra S. Bhattacharyya is a professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and a member of the University of Maryland Energy Research Center (UMERC).

His research interests include signal processing systems and architectures, wireless sensor networks, embedded software, and hardware/software co-design.

Bhattacharyya has previously held industrial positions as a researcher at the Hitachi America Semiconductor Research Laboratory and as compiler developer at Kuck & Associates. He also held a visiting research position at the U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory.

Bhattacharyya is director of the Maryland DSPCAD Research Group. He serves as co-editor-in-chief of the Journal of Signal Processing Systems. He has also served as associate editor for the EURASIP Journal on Embedded Systems, and IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing Systems. Additionally, he was a guest editor for the ACM Transactions on Embedded Computer Systems, EURASIP Journal on Applied Signal Processing, IEEE Computer Magazine, IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Circuits and Systems, and IEEE Signal Processing Magazine.

He is the author of six books and more than 250 papers in the areas of signal processing, embedded systems, electronic design automation, wireless communication, and wireless sensor networks. Bhattacharyya has also co-authored and co-edited several books, including "The Handbook of Signal Processing Systems" (Springer; second edition: 2013, first edition: 2010), "Embedded Multiprocessors: Scheduling and Synchronization" (second edition: CRC Press, 2009, first edition: Marcel Dekker, Inc., 2000), "Embedded Computer Vision" (Springer, 2008), "Memory Management for Synthesis of DSP Software" (CRC Press, 2006), "Domain-Specific Processors: Systems, Architectures, Modeling, and Simulation" (Marcel Dekker, Inc., 2003), and "Software Synthesis from Dataflow Graphs" (Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1996).

He received his doctorate degree in electrical engineering and computer sciences from the University of California at Berkeley in 1994.

Go here
(link is external)
 to view Bhattacharyya‘s academic publications on Google Scholar.

PEOPLE
Faculty
Staff
Affiliate Faculty
Adjunct Faculty
Emeritus Faculty
Visiting Faculty
Faculty Honors
National Academies of Sciences and Engineering
CAREER Awards
PECASE Awards
ACM Fellows
ACM Distinguished Member Grade
AAAS Fellows
IEEE Fellows
IAPR Fellows
AAAI Fellows
SIAM Fellows
Sloan Fellows
ACL Fellows
©1995 - 2024 UMIACS
Web Accessibility

