Professor: Siva Theja Maguluri
University: Georgia Institute of Technology
URL: https://sites.google.com/site/sivatheja
Description: Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
Siva Theja Maguluri	
HomeResearchCVGroupTalksTeachingOthers
	
SIVA THEJA MAGULURI

I am Fouts Family Early Career Professor and an Associate Professor in the H. Milton Stewart School of Industrial & Systems Engineering at Georgia Tech.

Before joining Georgia Tech, I spent two years in the Stochastic Processes and Optimization group, which is part of the Mathematical Sciences Department at the IBM T. J. Watson Research Center. I received my Ph.D. in ECE from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 2014 and was advised by Prof R. Srikant. Before that, I received an MS in ECE from UIUC, which was advised by Prof R. Srikant and Prof. Bruce Hajek. I also hold an MS in Applied Maths from UIUC. I obtained my B.Tech in Electrical Engineering from Indian Institute of Technology Madras.

I received the NSF CAREER award in 2021, 2017 Best Publication in Applied Probability Award from INFORMS Applied Probability Society, and the second prize in 2020 INFORMS JFIG best paper competition. Joint work with my students received the Stephen S. Lavenberg Best Student Paper Award at IFIP Performance 2021. As a recognition of my teaching efforts, I received the Student Recognition of Excellence in Teaching: Class of 1934 CIOS Award in 2020 for ISyE 6761 and the CTL/BP Junior Faculty Teaching Excellence Award, also in 2020, both presented by the Center for Teaching and Learning at Georgia Tech.




I am actively looking for PhD students and Postdoctoral researchers with strong mathematical training for positions starting in Fall 2024. Candidates interested in PhD are encouraged to apply to one of the ISyE PhD programs and candidates looking for postdoctoral positions are encouraged to apply to all three of these opportunities at GT: President's postdoc (Deadline Nov 1), ISyE Postdoc and ARC postdoc. Please give me a heads up after you apply. 

RESEARCH INTERESTS

Reinforcement Learning

Optimization

Stochastic Processes

Queueing Theory

Concentration Inequalities

Revenue Optimization

Cloud Computing Data Centers

Communication Networks

Ride hailing

CONTACT

Email: siva.theja @ gatech.edu
Phone: 404-385-5518
Office: Room 439 Groseclose
Mailing Address:
H. Milton Stewart School of Industrial and Systems Engineering
Georgia Institute of Technology
765 Ferst Drive NW
Atlanta, GA 30332-0205 

Page updated
Google Sites
Report abuse

