Professor: Srinivas Aluru
University: Georgia Institute of Technology
URL: http://www.cc.gatech.edu/~saluru
Description: Srinivas Aluru
Regents' Professor, School of Computational Science and Engineering
Executive Director, Institute for Data Engineering and Science
Georgia Institute of Technology
S1237 CODA Building
756 W Peachtree St NW, Atlanta, GA 30308
Email: aluru at cc dot gatech dot edu



Click for CV
Home Research Group  Publications  Software Honors and Awards



Srinivas Aluru is a Regents' professor in the School of Computational Science and Engineering and serves as the Executive Director of the Georgia Tech Interdisciplinary Research Institute (IRI) in Data Engineering and Science (IDEaS). He co-leads the NSF South Big Data Regional Innovation Hub which nurtures big data partnerships between organizations in the 16 Southern States and Washington D.C., and the NSF Transdisciplinary Research Institute for Advancing Data Science. Aluru conducts research in high performance computing, data science, bioinformatics and systems biology, combinatorial scientific computing, and applied algorithms. He pioneered the development of parallel methods in computational biology, and contributed to the assembly and analysis of complex plant genomes. His group is currently focused on developing bioinformatics methods for long reads, graph representations of genomes, and network methods using mutual information and Bayesian approaches. His contributions in scientific computing lie in parallel Fast Multipole Method, domain decomposition methods, spatial data structures, and applications in computational electromagnetics and materials informatics. Aluru is a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), the Asociation for Computing Machinery (ACM), the Institute for Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE), and the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM). He is a recipient of the NSF Career award (1997), IBM faculty award (2002), Swarnajayanti fellowship from the Government of India (2007), and the John. V. Atanasoff Discovery Award from Iowa State University (2017).

Previously, Aluru held faculty positions at Iowa State University, Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, New Mexico State University, and Syracuse University. Immediately prior to joining Georgia Tech, Aluru spent 14 years working as a faculty in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Iowa State University. At Iowa State, he held the Ross Martin Mehl and Marylyne Munas Mehl endowed professorship (2009-2013) and the Richard Stanley Chair in Interdisciplinary Engineering in the College of Engineering (2006-2009). He chaired the interdepartmental Bioinformatics and Computational Biology graduate program (2005-2007), served as associate chair for research in the department (2003-2006), and led the Dean's Research Initiative in high-throughput computational biology, a multi-disciplinary and multi-investigator initiative at the interface of high performance computing and computational biology. He was a recipient of university level awards for Outstanding Achievement in Research (2011) and Mid-career Achievement in Research (2006), Young Engineering Faculty Research Award (2002) within the College of Engineering, and the Warren B. Boast Undergraduate Teaching Award (2005).

Recent Keynotes/Distinguished Lectures
Genome graphs: Models, algorithms, and applications, keynote at the 16th International Symposium on Bioinformatics Research and Applications (ISBRA), Moscow, Russia, December 1, 2020.
Genomes galore: Big data challenges in computational genomics and systems biology, Computer Science and Mathematics Dvision (CSMD) Reocgnition Lecture Series, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, September 26, 2019.
Genomes galore: Big data challenges in computational genomics, University of Brasilia, May 27, 2019.
Long read mapping at scale: Algorithms and applications, keynote at the 8th IEEE International Conference on Computational Advances in Bio and Medical Sciences (ICCABS), Las Vegas, October 19, 2018.
Parallel machine learning approaches for reverse engineering genome-scale networks, invited talk at Symposium on Machine Learning in Science and Engineering, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, June 7, 2018.
High performance computing for biology and medicine, invited talk at the CCC Workshop on Digital Computing Beyond Moore's Law, San Francisco, May 3, 2018.
Automata processor and its applications in bioinformatics, keynote at the 1st International Workshop on Accelerator Architectues in Computational Biology and Bioinformatics (AACBB), held in conjunction with International Symposium on High Performance Computer Architecture (HPCA), Vienna, Austria, February 24, 2018.
Genomes galore: Big data challenges in the life sciences, invited talk at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois, February 12, 2018.
Recent Conference Leadership
Steering Committee member, ACM Conference on Bioinformatics, Computational Biology, and Health Informatics (ACM-BCB), 2016-present.
Steering Committee member, IEEE International Conference on High Performance Computing (HiPC), 2010-present.
Track Chair, Algorithms, International Conference on Parallel Processing (ICPP), August 2023.
Co-General Chair, IEEE International Conference on Bioinformatics and Biomedicine (BIBM), December 2022.
Co-General Chair, IEEE International Conference on Big Data (BigData), December 2020.
Co-General Chair, ACM Conference on Bioinformatics, Computational Biology and Health Informatics (ACM BCB), September 2020.
Co-Chair, Third Annual TRIPODS PI meeting, April 23-24, 2020.
Handbook of Computational Molecular Biology



