Professor: Sriram V. Pemmaraju
University: University of Iowa
URL: https://www.cs.uiowa.edu/~sriram
Description: Sriram Pemmaraju
Professor, Department of Computer Science, The University of Iowa

Coordinates:
256 Macbride Hall, Department of Computer Science, The University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA 52242-1419
319 353 2956 (voice)
sriram-pemmaraju@uiowa.edu

Office Hours (virtual):
1:30-2:30 T, 11:00-noon Th, 2:00-3:00 F (and by appointment). Send me an email for a zoom link.

Research:
I have a two-track research program. My primary research program is in theoretical computer science, more specifically in the foundations of distributed graph algorithms. Here I am interested in trade-offs between different resources used by distributed algorithms (e.g., rounds, messages, bandwidth, network topology, randomness, initial knowledge, etc.). My research in distributed graph algorithms has intersections with other areas in theoretical computer science such as approximation algorithms, combinatorial optimization, communication complexity, graph theory, information theory, and randomized algorithms.

In addition, I am part of the interdisciplinary Computational Epidemiology Group at Iowa. As part of my work with this group, I work on problems related to disease-diffusion, disease-inference and disease-mitigation on contact networks. I design algorithmic solutions to these problems that have low-cost implementations in healthcare settings. A particular focus of our group is healthcare associated infections and we are part of the CDC funded MInD Healthcare group.

Recent Publications:

Brief Announcement: Deterministic Massively Parallel Algorithms for Ruling Sets
with Shreyas Pai
PODC 2022   • conference version   • arxiv

Near-optimal clustering in the k-machine model
with Sayan Bandyapadhyay, Tanmay Inamdar, and Shreyas Pai
Theoretical Computer Science 2022   • journal version   • arxiv

Risk-aware Temporal Cascade Reconstruction to Detect Asymptomatic Cases
with Hankyu Jang, Shreyas Pai, and Bijaya Adhikari
ICDM 2021    • conference version

COVID-19 modeling and non-pharmaceutical interventions in an outpatient dialysis unit
with Hankyu Jang, Philip Polgreen, and Alberto Segre
PLOS Computational Biology 2021    • journal version

Modeling and Evaluation of Clustering Patient Care into Bubbles
with D.M. Hasibul Hasan, Alex Rohwer, Hankyu Jang, Ted Herman, Philip Polgreen, Daniel Sewell, and Bijaya Adhikari
ICHI 2021    • conference version   • arxiv

Can We Break Symmetry with o(m) Communication?
with Shreyas Pai, Gopal Pandurangan, and Peter Robinson
PODC 2021   • arxiv

Sample-and-Gather: Fast Ruling Set Algorithms in the Low-Memory MPC Model
with Kishore Kothapalli and Shreyas Pai
FST&TCS 2020   • conference version  • arxiv

Connectivity Lower Bounds in Broadcast Congested Clique
with Shreyas Pai
FST&TCS 2020   • conference version  • arxiv  • PODC 2019 brief announcement

Distributed Approximation on Power Graphs
with Reuven Bar-Yehuda, Keren Censor-Hillel, Yannic Maus, and Shreyas Pai
PODC 2020   • conference version  • arxiv

Household Exposure to Clostridioides difficile Infection in Family Members
with Aaron C. Miller, Alberto M. Segre, Daniel K. Sewell, and Philip M. Polgreen
JAMA Network Open 2020   • journal version

Spatiotemporal clustering of in-hospital Clostridioides difficile infection
with Shreyas Pai, Philip M. Polgreen, Alberto Maria Segre, and Daniel K. Sewell
Infection Control and Hospital Epidemiology 2020   • journal version
See my dblp page or my google scholar page for a more complete list of my theory publications. See compEpi publications for a list of publications of the Computational Epidemiology group at Iowa.

PhD Students:

Current: Joshua Sobel, Jeffrey Keithley, Hongyan Ji, Hankyu Jang, D. M. Hasibul Hasan.
Former Students: Shreyas Pai (2021, Aalto University Finland), Talal Riaz (2019, Yelp), Vivek Sardeshmukh (2016, Google), Mauricio Monsalve (2015, Post-doc at CIGIDEN), Andrew Berns (2012, U of Northern Iowa), Donald Curtis (2011, Google), Saurav Pandit (2010, Pond5), Imran Pirwani (2008, Google), Kevin Lillis (2008, St.Ambrose University), Rajiv Raman (2007, IIIT Delhi), Mirela Damian (2000, Villanova University), Arobinda Gupta (1996, IIT Kharagpur)

Current Teaching (Fall 2021):

Design and Implementation of Algorithms

Here you can find course pages of classes I have taught since 2001.

Other Recent Activities:


Conference organization: DISC 2019 (PC), SSS 2019 (PC), ICDCN 2019 (PC Chair), ICDCN 2020 (General Chair), FST&TCS 2021 (PC), SIROCCO 2022 (PC).
I organize the departmental Speaker's Bureau.
I am a mentor in the NSF REU on Computing for Health and Well Being.

Graduate Programs in CS at the University of Iowa
Visit the Graduate Programs pages to learn more about the graduate degrees (PhD and MCS) offered by the Department of Computer Science at the University of Iowa.

Back to the departmental homepage.

The views and opinions expressed in this page are strictly those of the page author. The contents of this page have not been approved by Mathematical Sciences, the College of Liberal Arts, or The University of Iowa.

