Professor: Sriram Sankaranarayanan 0001
University: University of Colorado Boulder
URL: https://www.cs.colorado.edu/~srirams
Description: Sriram Sankaranarayanan
about
group
projects
publications
teaching
Sriram Sankaranarayanan

Professor of Computer Science.
Associate Dean for Digital Education
University of Colorado Boulder

.


Engg. Center ECOT 717
University of Colorado Boulder
Boulder, CO 80309-0430
Phone: (303) 492 6580
Please Read Before Sending Me Email

I am a Professor in the Computer Science department and the associate dean for digital education in the College of Engineering at the University of Colorado at Boulder.

My research focuses on the design and analysis of cyber-physical systems: these are computations that involve a combination of programs that execute “discretely” interacting with a physical environment that “flows” continuously. I work on fundamental problems involving modeling and analysis using hybrid dynamical systems and formal methods with applications to artificial pancreas systems for treating type-1 diabetes, verification and validation of algorithms that control robotic systems and modeling/analyzing the interactions between humans and autonomous systems. I am part of the programming languages & verification group at CU Boulder.

I teach a variety of courses in the areas of programming languages, algorithms, mathematical optimization and specialized courses pertinent to my research areas.

I have been faculty at CU Boulder since 2009. Previously, I was a member of research staff at NEC Laboratories America from 2005-2009. I graduated with a PhD in (theoretical) Computer Science from Stanford University in 2005. Here is a link to a brief biography.

news
Jun 20, 2024	Congratulations to Drs. Emily Jensen, Monal Narasimhamurthy and Kandai Watanabe for successfully defending their PhD dissertations.
Apr 1, 2024	I will be co-organizing ATVA 2024 with S. Akshay and Aina Niemetz as co-PC chairs and Ichiro Hasuo as general chair.
Mar 30, 2023	I gave an invited talk on my intent monitoring work at the User-Aligned Assessment of Adaptive AI Systems workshop Spring Symposium 2024.
selected publications
Cone-Based Abstract Interpretation for Nonlinear Positive Invariant Synthesis
Guillaume O. Berger, Masoumeh Ghanbarpour, and Sriram Sankaranarayanan
In Hybrid Systems: Computation and Control (HSCC), pp. 12:1-12:16, 2024.
ABS BIB URL

We present an abstract interpretation approach for synthesizing nonlinear (semi-algebraic) positive invariants for systems of polynomial ordinary differential equations (ODEs) and switched systems. The key behind our approach is to connect the system under study to a positive nonlinear system through a “change of variables”. The positive invariance of the first orthant (R+) for a positive system guarantees, in turn, that the functions involved in the change of variables define a positive invariant for the original system. The challenge lies in discovering such functions for a given system. To this end, we characterize positive invariants as fixed points under an operator that is defined using the Lie derivative. Next, we use abstract-interpretation approaches to systematically compute this fixed point. Whereas abstract interpretation has been applied to the static analysis of programs, and invariant synthesis for hybrid systems to a limited extent, we show how these approaches can compute fixed points over cones generated by polynomials using sum-of-squares optimization and its relaxations. Our approach is shown to be promising over a set of small but hard-to-analyze nonlinear models, wherein it is able to generate positive invariants to place useful bounds on their reachable sets.

        @inproceedings{ Berger+Ghanbarpour+Sankaranarayanan/2024/Cone,
        title = { Cone-Based Abstract Interpretation for Nonlinear Positive Invariant Synthesis },
        author = {   Berger, Guillaume O.  and    Ghanbarpour, Masoumeh  and    Sankaranarayanan, Sriram   },
        booktitle= { Hybrid Systems: Computation and Control (HSCC) },  
        year = { 2024 },  
        publisher = { ACM }, 
        pages = { 12:1-12:16 }, 
        
        
        
        
        
        }
        
Counterexample-guided computation of polyhedral Lyapunov functions for piecewise linear systems
Guillaume O. Berger, and Sriram Sankaranarayanan
Automatica, 155 pp. 111165, 2023.
ABS BIB URL

This paper presents a counterexample-guided iterative algorithm to compute convex, piecewise linear (polyhedral) Lyapunov functions for continuous-time piecewise linear systems. Polyhedral Lyapunov functions provide an alternative to commonly used polynomial Lyapunov functions. Our approach first characterizes intrinsic properties of a polyhedral Lyapunov function including its “eccentricity” and “robustness” to perturbations. We then derive an algorithm that either computes a polyhedral Lyapunov function proving that the system is asymptotically stable, or concludes that no polyhedral Lyapunov function exists whose eccentricity and robustness parameters satisfy some user-provided limits. Significantly, our approach places no a-priori bound on the number of linear pieces that make up the desired polyhedral Lyapunov function. The algorithm alternates between a learning step and a verification step, always maintaining a finite set of witness states. The learning step solves a linear program to compute a candidate Lyapunov function compatible with a finite set of witness states. In the verification step, our approach verifies whether the candidate Lyapunov function is a valid Lyapunov function for the system. If verification fails, we obtain a new witness. We prove a theoretical bound on the maximum number of iterations needed by our algorithm. We demonstrate the applicability of the algorithm on numerical examples.

        @article{ Berger+Sankaranarayanan/2023/Counterexample,
        title = { Counterexample-guided computation of polyhedral Lyapunov functions for piecewise linear systems },
        author = {   Berger, Guillaume O.  and    Sankaranarayanan, Sriram   },
        journal = { Automatica },  
        year = { 2023 },  
        
        pages = { 111165 }, 
        
        
        volume = { 155 },  
        
        
        }
        
Temporal Logic-Based Intent Monitoring for Mobile Robots
Hansol Yoon, and Sriram Sankaranarayanan
In IROS, pp. 8643–8650, 2023.
ABS BIB URL

We propose a framework that uses temporal logic specifications to predict and monitor the intent of a robotic agent through passive observations of its actions over time. Our approach uses a set of possible hypothesized intents specified as Buchi automata, obtained from translating temporal logic formulae. Based on observing the actions of the robot, we update the probabilities of each hypothesis using Bayes rule. Observations of robot actions provide strong evidence for its "immediate" short-term goals, whereas temporal logic specifications describe behaviors over a "never-ending" infinite time horizon. To bridge this gap, we use a two-level hierarchical monitoring approach. At the lower level, we track the immediate short-term goals of the robot which are modeled as atomic propositions in the temporal logic formalism. We apply our approach to predicting intent of human workers and thus their movements in an indoor space based on the publicly available THOR dataset. We show how our approach correctly labels each agent with their appropriate intents after relatively few observations while predicting their future actions accurately over longer time horizons.

        @inproceedings{ Yoon+Sankaranarayanan/2023/Temporal,
        title = { Temporal Logic-Based Intent Monitoring for Mobile Robots },
        author = {   Yoon, Hansol  and    Sankaranarayanan, Sriram   },
        booktitle= { IROS },  
        year = { 2023 },  
        
        pages = { 8643–8650 }, 
        
        
        
        
        
        }
        
     
© Copyright 2024 Sriram Sankaranarayanan.
Powered by Jekyll with al-folio theme.
Home Page Photo credit: Dr. Allie Mahon . Last updated: July 23, 2024.

