Professor: Stephen J. Guy
University: University of Minnesota
URL: http://www-users.cs.umn.edu/~sjguy
Description: Stephen J. Guy: Research interests - Robotics, Animation, AI
sjguy@umn.edu


	Director
Applied Motion Lab
http://motion.cs.umn.edu

Address:
4-192 Keller Hall
200 Union St SE
Minneapolis, MN 55455

Office
Keller 5-225F
Phone: (612) 625-3368


NEWS: Our work modeling smiles was featured in a joke on Late Night with Seth Meyers.

NEWS: Our recent work in modeling human faces has been covered by The Guardian, Popular Science , Science , and others.

NEWS: Our work in pedestrian modeling has been published in Physical Review Letters (PRL)
and has received wide press coverage including: Physics, Nature News, Science News, and The Boston Globe .

Selected Publications (Google Scholar Profile):


Crowd Space: A Predictive Crowd Analysis Technique, I. Karamouzas, N. Sohre, R. Hu, S. J. Guy, ACM TOG (Siggraph Asia) 2018. [WEB]
Implicit Crowds: Optimization Integrator for Robust Crowd Simulation, I. Karamouzas, N. Sohre, R. Narain, S. J. Guy, ACM TOG (Siggraph) 2017. [WEB]
Dynamic Properties of Successful Smiles, N. Helwig, N. Sohre, M. Ruprecht, S. J. Guy, S. Lyford-Pike, PLoS ONE, 2016. [WEB]
Moving in a Crowd: Safe and Efficient Navigation among Heterogeneous Agents, J. Godoy, S. J. Guy, IJCAI 2016. [PDF]
C-OPT: Coverage-Aware Trajectory Optimization Under Uncertainty, B. Davis, I. Karamouzas, I. Karamouzas, S. J. Guy, M. Gini, Robotics and Automation Letters (RA-L) 2016. [PDF]
Data-Driven Sokoban Puzzle Generation with Monte Carlo Tree Search, B. Kartal, N. Sohre, S. J. Guy, AIIDE 2016. [PDF]
Universal Power Law Governing Pedestrian Interaction, I. Karamouzas, B. Skinner, S. J. Guy, Physical Review Letters (PRL) 2014. [WEB]
Velocity-based modeling of physical interactions in multi-agent simulations., S. Kim, S. J. Guy, D. Manocha, SCA 2013. [PDF]
A Statistical Similarity Measure for Aggregate Crowd Dynamics, S. J. Guy, J. van den Berg, W. Liu, R. Lau, M. C. Lin, D. Manocha, ACM TOG (Siggraph Asia) 2012. [PDF]
Recent Courses:

Real-Time Game Engine Technology (CSCI 8980), Fall 2019 [Course Flyer]
Intro. to Programming Concepts (CSCI 1133), Spring 2019
Animation and Planning in Games (CSCI 5611), Spring 2019 [Syllabus]
Foundations of Computer Graphics (CSCI 5607), Fall 2018
Animation and Planning in Games (CSCI 5611), Spring 2017
Intro. to Programming Concepts - Honors (CSCI 1133H), Fall 2016
Experimental Game Technologies (CSCI 8980), Spring 2016
Animation and Planning in Games (CSCI 5611), Fall 2015
Foundations of Computer Graphics (CSCI 5607), Fall 2014
Intro. to Programming Concepts (CSCI 1133), Spring 2013
Animation and Planning in Games (CSCI 5980-003), Fall 2013

Bio: (Full CV)
Stephen J. Guy is an associate professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Minnesota. His research focuses on the development of artificial intelligence for use in autonomous robotics (e.g., collision avoidance and path planning under uncertainty) and computer simulations of human movement and behavior (e.g., crowd simulation and virtual characters). Stephen's work has had a wide influence in games, VR, and real-time graphics industries: his work on motion planning has been licensed by Relic Entertainment, EA, and other digital entertainment companies; he has been a speaker in the AI Summit at GDC, the leading conference in the games development industry. He is the recipient of several awards including the Charles E. Bowers Faculty Teaching Award and multiple best paper awards for his research work in simulation and planning. Stephen's academic work has appeared in top venues for robotics, AI and computer graphics including SIGGRAPH, IJRR, IEEE Trans. on Robotics, AAMAS, AAAI, and IJCAI. His work on simulating virtual humans has been widely covered in popular media including newspapers, magazines, documentaries, and late-night TV. Prior to joining Minnesota, he received his Ph.D. in Computer Science in 2012 from the University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill with support from fellowships from Google, Intel, and the UNCF, and his B.S. in Computer Engineering with honors from the University of Virginia in 2006.

Prospective Students:
I always look forward to meeting and collaborating with new students. I have a wide variety of interests (games, robots, AI/learning, graphics, simulations, ...), and am always excited about new ideas in these fields. If you are interested in discussing these or other areas, feel free to stop by my office or e-mail me to schedule an appointment.

If you are interested in joining me as a graduate student, I'd love to discuss how your research interests may potentially fit with my lab. In general, e-mail is the best way to contact me (and most other professors); David Evans has some great advice on how to do this productively -- I strongly recommend reading this before contacting any professor about graduate school.

Students considering applying for Ph.D. should also read the amazing frank advice from Dr. Mor Harchol-Balter.

