Professor: Stratos Idreos
University: Harvard University
URL: http://stratos.seas.harvard.edu/
Description: Skip to main content
HARVARD.EDU
Stratos Idreos
Gordon McKay Professor of Computer Science

Harvard John A. Paulson
School of Engineering & Applied Sciences


I lead the Data Systems Laboratory at Harvard

HOME
LAB & STUDENTS
PUBLICATIONS
BIO/CV
AWARDS
COURSES
TALKS
SERVICE
BLOG
•
•
•
Our research at Harvard DASlab aims to help with making it easier to design, tune and use data systems.

We are currently building three major systems:
(1) a design engine that accelerates research and improves developer productivity,
(2) a shape-shifting zero-knobs key-value store, and
(3) a data science accelerator.

Here is a video on the periodic table of data structures and self-designing systems 

Selected Recent Publications
S. Chatterjee, M. Jagadeesan, W. Qin, and S. Idreos, “Cosine: A Cloud-Cost Optimized Self-Designing Key-Value Storage Engine,” in Proceedings of the Very Large Databases Endowment (PVLDB), 2022.Abstract
 cosine.pdf
B. Hentschel, U. Sirin, and S. Idreos, “Entropy-Learned Hashing Constant Time Hashing with Controllable Uniformity,” in ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2022.Abstract
 entropylearnedhashing.pdf
N. Dayan and S. Idreos, “The Log-Structured Merge-Bush & the Wacky Continuum,” in ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2019.Abstract
 wackyandthebush.pdf
S. Idreos, K. Zoumpatianos, B. Hentschel, M. S. Kester, and D. Guo, “The Data Calculator: Data Structure Design and Cost Synthesis From First Principles, and Learned Cost Models,” in ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data , 2018.Abstract
 datacalculator.pdf
S. Idreos, et al., “Design Continuums and the Path Toward Self-Designing Key-Value Stores that Know and Learn,” in Biennial Conference on Innovative Data Systems Research (CIDR), 2019.Abstract
 selfdesign.pdf
S. Idreos, et al., “The Periodic Table of Data Structures,” Bulletin of the IEEE Computer Society Technical Committee on Data Engineering, vol. 41, no. 3, pp. 64-75, 2018.Abstract
 periodictabledatastructures.pdf
K. Deeds, B. Hentschel, and S. Idreos, “Stacked Filters: Learning to Filter by Structure,” Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment, vol. 14, no. 4, pp. 600 - 612, 2021.Abstract
 stackedfilters_vldb2021_extended_version.pdf
N. Dayan, M. Athanassoulis, and S. Idreos, “Optimal Bloom Filters and Adaptive Merging for LSM-Trees,” ACM Transactions on Database Systems, 2018.Abstract
 monkeytods.pdf
A. Wasay and S. Idreos, “More or Less: When and How to Build Convolutional Neural Network Ensembles,” in International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2021.Abstract
 deepcollider.pdf
A. Wasay, B. Hentschel, Y. Liao, S. Chen, and S. Idreos, “MOTHERNETS: RAPID DEEP ENSEMBLE LEARNING,” in Proceedings of the Conference on Machine Learning and Systems (MLSys), 2020.Abstract
 mothernetsmlsys2020.pdf
DASlab Twitter Feed
More news about DASlab

				

Full CV. Courses: CS265: Big Data Systems, CS165: Data Systems. Office Hours: Tue/Thur 11-11:45am, Mon/Wed/Fri 11:30am-12pm (zoom)

Stratos Idreos is short for my full Greek name: Efstratios Ydraios - "Ευστράτιος Υδραίος" in Greek. But also in Greek everyone just calls me "Στράτος" (Stratos).

Notice: The documents contained in these directories are included by the contributing authors as a means to ensure timely dissemination of scholarly and technical work on a non-commercial basis. Copyright and all rights therein are maintained by the authors or by other copyright holders, notwithstanding that they have offered their works here electronically. It is understood that all persons copying this information will adhere to the terms and constraints invoked by each author's copyright.

Admin Login
Copyright © 2024 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement

