Professor: Suining He
University: University of Connecticut
URL: http://hesuining.weebly.com/
Description: Suining He	
	
HOME
PUBLICATION
RESEARCH
TEACHING
STUDENTS, AWARDS, & SERVICES
"It's over, Anakin. I have the high ground." -- Star Wars EP III
Biography:
Suining He (Seoi-Ning Henry Ho) is currently working as the Assistant Professor at the Department of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) (now the School of Computing), the College of Engineering, the University of Connecticut (UConn) since 09/2019. He is also an affiliated faculty member at the Connecticut Advanced Computing Center (CACC), the Connecticut Transportation Institute (CTI), the UConn Eversource Energy Center, the UConn Engineering for Human Rights Initiative (EHRI) across School of Engineering (SoE) and Human Rights Institute (HRI), UConn Sustainable Global Cities Initiative (SGCI), and Transportation Infrastructure Durability Center (TIDC). He is the Founding Director of the UConn's Ubiquitous and Urban Computing Lab. 

Before joining UConn, he worked as a postdoctoral research fellow at the Real-Time Computing Lab (RTCL), at the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS; 電子工程與計算機科學), The University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI during 11/2016 -- 08/2019. Prior to that, he also worked as a postdoctoral research fellow at the Multimedia Technology Research Center (MTrec), Department of Computer Science and Engineering, the Hong Kong University of Science and Engineering (HKUST) during 09/2016 -- 10/2016.

Suining He received the Ph.D. degree in Computer Science and Engineering (計算機科學與工程), Department of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE), from the Hong Kong University of Science and Engineering (HKUST) in 08/2016, and the B.Eng degree (summa cum laude) in Mechanical Design, Manufacturing, and Automation (機械設計製造及自動化), the School of Mechanical Science and Engineering, Huazhong University of Science and Technology (HUST) in 06/2012. 

Suining He received the NSF CAREER Award in 2023, Google Research Scholar Program Award in Geo and NVIDIA Applied Research Accelerator Program Award in 2021, and two UConn Research Excellence Program (REP) Awards in 2022 and 2020, and held the Google PhD Fellowship in Mobile Computing in 2015, HKUST School of Engineering (SENG) PhD Research Fellowship Award in 2015--2016, and Hong Kong Telecom Institute of Information Technology (HKTIIT) Post-Graduate Excellence Scholarship in 2016. His scholarly works appear in WWW, SenSys, UbiComp, INFOCOM, TKDE, and TMC, and received the IEEE MASS Best Paper Runner-up Award in 2020 and IEEE RTSS Outstanding Paper Award in 2021. He was ranked among the Stanford's World's Top 2% Scientists in 2023. He serves as the editor for the IEEE Journal of Indoor and Seamless Positioning and Navigation (J-ISPIN) since 2023. He received the UConn Office of the Provost Excellence in Teaching Award in 2020. His core location-based service (LBS) technologies developed, patented, and transferred during his PhD studies have led to direct industrial and long-term societal impacts.

Suining's research is supported by National Science Foundation (NSF), United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), Google, NVIDIA, General Electric (GE), Cigna, Transportation Infrastructure Durability Center (TIDC), Department of Transportation (DOT), SafeGraph, StreetLight Insight, and internal grants from UConn's Office of the Vice President for Research (OVPR).
​​​
For Permission Number(s): Due to large volume of permission number requests, please fill out the following permission number request form [link] to help streamline the request processing (Current Form: CSE 4820/5819 Fall 2024 - Introduction to Machine Learning). Please feel free to send me a reminder email as a follow-up. Permission numbers will be issued based on fulfillment of course pre-requisites and handled through batch processing. UConn email address is required for form filling. Thank you for your time and patience.
​
Contact Me: The best way to contact me is via emails. If you don't get my reply in 48 hours, please feel free to send it again.

Contact Information:
Email: suining.he[AT]uconn[DOT]edu

371 Fairfield Way Unit 4155
ITE 337, Storrs, CT 06269-4155 

Research Interests [Research]:
Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) and Smart & Connected Communities (S&CC): Intelligent Transportation, Sharing Economy, Mobility-on-Demand
Human-Centered Computing (HCC): Human-(Micro)Mobility Interaction, AI for Smart Society and Smart Mobility, Ubiquitous Crowdsourcing & Crowdsensing, Human-centered Location-based Services (LBS), Socio-Technical Systems, Social Sensing
Urban Computing Cyberinfrastructure:  Geographic Information System (GIS), Spatio-Temporal Data Management, Socially-Conscious AI, Location and Sensor Data Privacy-Preserving Learning
Data Mining, Machine Learning, & Artificial Intelligence (DM, ML, & AI): Sensor/Location/User Data Learning, Spatio-Temporal Data Science and Data Analytics, Large Language Models (LLMs)​, Foundation of Indoor Localization
Robotics (undergrad): Humanoid Robot Control and ZMP Modeling, Autonomous Vehicles and Self-Driving, Motion and Trajectory Planning, Human-Robot Interaction, Virtual and Augmented Reality, Robotic Vision 

​My Recent Publications [Google Scholar] [DBLP] [Selected Pub List] [Research Gate] [ORCiD]:    ​

​​Resources for Current and Prospective Students:
[For Prospective Students]: I am not keen on the requirements regarding any prior master's degree or tons of published papers. However, one who pursues PhD degree under my supervision shall truly love doing research and have the genuine passion as well as a life-time goal ​to become a top researcher in her/his research field. 
How to read, write and present papers (by Prof. Vaidya at UIUC)
How to give a talk (by Profs. Jones, Hughes and Launchbury)
Student mentoring (by Prof. Wu)
Writing skills
Writing technical articles 
Advice on research and writing
A link on writing
Advice for writing papers (From Prof. Ivan Stojmenovic)
Writing a math paper (by Profs. Kleiman and Tesler)
Paper writing with MS Words (by Prof. Lionel Ni)
Task of a referee (good to know before you write a paper)
Academic career
Advice from Professor David Patterson
Academic life​



	
	
	
	
	
42,180 Total Pageviews
POWERED BY 
Create your own unique website with customizable templates.
Get Started

