Professor: Susan Gauch
University: University of Arkansas
URL: http://www.csce.uark.edu/~sgauch
Description: Susan Gauch, Ph.D.
Professor
        	
Contact
Susan Gauch, Ph.D.
Computer Science and Computer Engineering
University of Arkansas
Fayetteville, AR 72701

Office: 531 JBHT
Phone: 479-575-4964
Fax: 479-575-5339
Email: sgauch at uark dot edu
Web: http://www.csce.uark.edu/~sgauch

Office Hours: Mon, Wed, Fri 11:30-12:30
In person or Online Office Hours Location

Education
Honours B.Sc. in Computer Science & Mathematics, 1981, Queen's University, Ontario
M.Sc. in Computer Science, 1982, Queen's University, Ontario
Ph.D. in Computer Science, 1990, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Teaching and Research Areas
Intelligent Information Retrieval
Personalization and Web Search
Semi-Automated Ontology Construction and Modification
Biographical Sketch

Dr. Susan Gauch received her Ph.D. from University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill in 1990 where she developed an expert search assistant for an online full-text database. While a Senior Research Scientist with the Biological Knowledge Laboratory at Northeastern University, she explored the storage, retrieval, and user interface technologies necessary for technical literature. At the University of Kansas, from 1993-2007, she explored the use of intelligent agents for information fusion from the web, research funded by her NSF CAREER award. Other research created one of the first meta-search engines (ProFusion), VISION, the first video search engine (jointly with Dr. John Gauch), and some of the earliest work on personalized search (OBIWAN). Four projects resulted in software licenses from the university to industry and she founded of two startup companies (ProFusion and VISION) that were ultimately acquired by larger companies. She is past Vice-Chair for the ACM Special Interest Group on Information Retrieval and is a reviewer for major funding organizations, conferences, and archival journals.

In 2007, Dr. Gauch joined the University of Arkansas to become the head of Computer Science and Computer Engineering where she remained active in research. One project focused on adding conceptual and personalized information access within the context of the CiteSeer digital library of computer science literature. Over her career, she has received research funding of over $1.9 million as PI and over $30 million as Co-PI. She has published more than 120 peer-reviewed papers resulting in 6700+ citations and supervised 11 PhD, 90 M.S., and 11 Honors graduates. As department head, she oversaw an increase of over 50% in undergraduate enrollments and a more than two-fold increase in scholarly publications and funded research. Outreach focused on creating summer camps for students in grades 6 - 11, increasing scholarships, and honoring outstanding alumni. She developed mentoring programs for the seven new faculty hires and led the department through ABET accreditation. Her current research focuses on fairness in academic paper peer review and the use of emotion analysis and machine learning to identify fake news. Dr. Gauch is a noted educator who brings her research into the classroom; she has received two campus-wide teaching awards, a Kemper Award for Excellence in Teaching at the University of Kansas and the campus-wide Charles and Nadine Baum Award Faculty Teaching Award at the University of Arkansas.

Research
Social Media Research Group
Teaching
CSCE 2004 Programming Foundations I


CSCE 3193 Programming Paradigms


CSCE 4523/5523 Database Management Systems


CSCE 4553 Information Retrieval


CSCE 5533 Advanced Information Retrieval


CSCE 5543 Statistical Natural Language Processing


More Info
Schedule
Publications from Google Scholar
Curriculum Vita
CSCE Department
College of Engineering
University of Arkansas
Copyright © 2009  Design by Pikanai.com

