Professor: Tamara Broderick
University: Massachusetts Institute of Technology
URL: http://www.tamarabroderick.com/
Description: T. Broderick
My group
Want to work with me?
Publications
Research seminars
Tutorials
Awards
Miscellany


Tamara Broderick






Short bio (plaintext)
Google Scholar
LinkedIn
Affiliations
Accessibility
About me

I am an Associate Professor with tenure at MIT. I work in the areas of machine learning and statistics. Before coming to MIT, I completed my PhD at UC Berkeley. You can learn more about my background in the following (plaintext) short bio.

In my research, I am interested in understanding how we can quickly, easily, and reliably quantify uncertainty and robustness in modern data analysis procedures.

Current PhD Students and Postdocs
Madelyn Andersen
Renato Berlinghieri
David Burt
Jenny Y. Huang
Yunyi Shen
Eric Weine
Past PhD Students and Postdocs
Raj Agrawal, Research Scientist, Basis Research Institute
Trevor Campbell, Associate Professor, University of British Columbia
Sameer Deshpande, Assistant Professor, University of Wisconsin–Madison
Sam Elder, Machine Learning Scientist, Kebotix
Ryan Giordano, Assistant Professor, UC Berkeley
Jonathan Huggins, Assistant Professor, Boston University
Mikołaj Kasprzak, Marie Skłodowska-Curie (Global) Fellow (starting as Assistant Professor at ESSEC Business School in fall 2024)
Lorenzo Masoero, Applied Research Scientist, Amazon
Yaroslav Mukhin, Postdoctoral Researcher, IDSS
Tin Danh Nguyen, Quantitative Researcher, Quantbot Technologies LP
Miriam Shiffman, Senior Scientist in Data & Machine Learning, biotech startup
William Stephenson, Member of Technical Staff, MIT Lincoln Labs
Brian Trippe, Postdoctoral Fellow, Columbia University (starting as Assistant Professor at Stanford in fall 2024)
Interested in working with me?
To apply to work with me as a PhD student, submit your application to MIT EECS; more info at this link. I can also advise PhD students accepted to other appropriate programs at MIT; e.g., I have advised PhDs in Math and CSB.
To apply to work with me as a postdoc, email me your CV (pdf), a statement of research interests, a pdf of 1 (or 2) of your most significant publications, and the contact details (including email addresses) of two references.
Affiliations
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS) Department
Laboratory for Information and Decision Systems (LIDS)
Statistics and Data Science Center
Institute for Data, Systems, and Society (IDSS)
MachineLearning@MIT
MIT Institute for Foundations of Data Science (MIFODS)
Accessibility


Plain Academic

