Professor: Thomas Plötz
University: Georgia Institute of Technology
URL: https://www.cc.gatech.edu/people/thomas-ploetz
Description: Skip to main navigation
Skip to main content
College of Computing
Main navigation
About
Future Students
Current Students
Schools
News & Events
People
Research
Industry
Action Menu
Contact Us
Int'l. Conf. on Machine Learning
Breadcrumb
Home 
Directory 
Thomas Ploetz
Professor and Associate Chair of Graduate Studies

thomas.ploetz@gatech.edu

http://thomasploetz.de

Research Areas:
Ubiquitous Computing; Wearable Computing; Machine Learning; Health Analytics; Computational Behavior Assessment

Biography

Thomas Ploetz is a computer scientist with expertise and almost 15 years of experience in Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning research (Ph.D. from Bielefeld University, Germany). His research agenda focuses on applied machine learning that is developing systems and innovative sensor data analysis methods for real world applications. Primary application domain for his work is computational behavior analysis, in which he develops methods for automated and objective behavior assessments in naturalistic environments. Main driving functions for his work are "in the wild" deployments and the development of systems and methods that have a real impact on people’s lives.

In 2017, Dr. Ploetz joined the School of Interactive Computing at the Georgia Institute of Technology, where he works as an associate professor. Prior to this, he was an academic at the School of Computing Science at Newcastle University in Newcastle in Tyne, U.K., where he was a reader (associate professor) for Computational Behavior Analysis affiliated with Open Lab, Newcastle's interdisciplinary center for research in digital technologies.

Visit the Computational Behavior Analysis Lab: cba.gatech.edu.

Affiliations
School of Interactive Computing
Online Master of Science Computer Science (OMSCS)
    
GEORGIA TECH RESOURCES
Offices and Departments
News Center
Campus Calendar
Special Events
GreenBuzz
Institute Communications
VISITOR RESOURCES
Campus Visits
Directions to Campus
Visitor Parking Information
GT visitor Wireless Network Information
Georgia Tech Global Learning Center
Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center
Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech
Ferst Center for the Arts
Robert C. Williams Paper Museum
COLLEGES, INSTRUCTIONAL SITES AND RESEARCH
Colleges
College of Computing
College of Design
College of Engineering
College of Sciences
Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts
Scheller College of Business
Instructional Sites
Georgia Tech-Europe
Georgia Tech-Shenzhen
Georgia Tech Online
Professional Education
The Language Institute
Global Footprint
Global Engagement
Research
Georgia Tech Research Institute
Research at Georgia Tech
Executive Vice President for Research
COLLEGE OF COMPUTING RESOURCES
Intranet
STUDENT AND PARENT RESOURCES
Student Resources
Apply
BuzzPort
Buzzcard
Career Center
Commencement
Library
Student Life
Student Entrepreneurship
Education Abroad
Canvas
Parent Resources
Parent and Family Programs
Division of Student Life
Scholarships and Financial Aid
NEWS FEED
Professor Presents Research on Online Research Allocation

Behind the computing tools we use every day, there is complex research…

Regents’ Professor Steps Up for Second Stint as Interim School Chair

A veteran computer science professor is stepping up as the interim…

New Machine Learning Method Lets Scientists Use Generative AI to Design Custom Molecules and Other Complex Structures

New research from Georgia Tech is giving scientists more control…

Georgia Institute of Technology

North Avenue
Atlanta, GA 30332
+1 404.894.2000
Campus Map

General
Directory
Employment
Emergency Information
Legal
Equal Opportunity, Nondiscrimination, and Anti-Harassment Policy
Legal & Privacy Information
Human Trafficking Notice
Title IX/Sexual Misconduct
Hazing Public Disclosures
Accessibility
Accountability
Accreditation
Report Free Speech and Censorship Concern

© 2024 Georgia Institute of Technology

GT LOGIN

