Professor: Tyler Moore 0001
University: University of Tulsa
URL: https://tylermoore.ens.utulsa.edu/
Description: 	
Tyler Moore


Tandy Professor of Cyber Security & Information Assurance


School of Cyber Studies


Tandy School of Computer Science


The University of Tulsa


tyler-moore@utulsa.edu



Home
	
Publications
	
Security Economics
	
Teaching
	
News

I am the Tandy Professor of Cyber Security and Information Assurance in the School of Cyber Studies and the Tandy School of Computer Science at the University of Tulsa. My research focuses on the economics of information security, the study of electronic crime, and the development of policy for strengthening security. I am also interested in digital currencies and critical infrastructure protection. I direct the Security Economics Lab at TU. Prior to joining TU, I was a postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Research on Computation and Society (CRCS) at Harvard University, the Norma Wilentz Hess Visiting Assistant Professor of Computer Science at Wellesley College, and an assistant professor at Southern Methodist University. I completed my PhD at the University of Cambridge as a Marshall Scholar, supervised by Prof. Ross Anderson.

I serve as Chair of the School of Cyber Studies, a newly formed academic department comprised of faculty from a broad range of disciplines. The School administers BS and MS degrees in Cyber Security, as well as an interdisciplinary PhD in Cyber Studies. We are looking for outstanding students interested in pursuing their PhD on a variety of topics. TU offers tuition support and competitive stipends to full-time students. I also serve as Faculty Director of the MS in Cyber Security, an online program geared towards working professionals.

I have multiple openings for PhD students. Visit this page for more information.

Together with Prof. David Pym, I am Editor in Chief of the Journal of Cybersecurity (JCS). JCS is a new open-access publication from Oxford University Press, developed specifically to deliver a venue that bridges the many different disciplines and specialties involving information security.

From 2011-2014 I served as a Director and Vice President of the International Financial Cryptography Assocation (IFCA), which organizes the annual Financial Crypto conference. I have also served as Vice Chair of the IFIP 11.10 Working Group on Critical Infrastructure Protection. For a comprehensive listing of my professional activities, please see my CV.

For information on my current students and their research interests, visit the teaching page.

Curriculum Vitae

For a comprehensive listing of appointments, publications, presentations, funding, teaching experience, and academic service, please view my CV.

Contact Information
Tyler Moore
Tandy School of Computer Science
University of Tulsa
800 South Tucker Drive
Tulsa, OK 74104-9700

Office: Rayzor Hall 2140

Phone: (918) 631-3232 (on campus: x3232)

Email: tyler-moore@utulsa.edu

PGP key
Created 1 October 2004 - Last Updated 30 October 2021

