Professor: Umar Iqbal 0002
University: Washington University in St. Louis
URL: https://engineering.wustl.edu/faculty/Umar-Iqbal.html
Description: Skip to content
Information for:
Apply Now!
McKelvey School of Engineering
Academics
Faculty & Research
Offices & Services
News & Events
About
Home Faculty Directory Umar Iqbal
Umar Iqbal
Pronouns: He/him/his
Assistant Professor

Computer Science & Engineering

Office
McKelvey Hall, Room 1033
 umar.iqbal@wustl.edu  Lab website  Google Scholar  Download CV

Education

PhD, University of Iowa, 2021
BS, National University of Computer & Emerging Sciences, Pakistan, 2013

Expertise

Improving user privacy and security on the internet

Research

Umar Iqbal's research interests are in security and privacy. His research takes a data-driven approach to improve user privacy and security on the internet. He is particularly interested in building defenses against prevalent threats on the internet, preemptively anticipating and mitigating threats in emerging technologies, and exploring defenses that leverage law and policy.    
  


Biography

Professor Iqbal will join the Department of Computer Science & Engineering at Washington University in Fall 2023. Previously, he was a Postdoctoral Scholar at the University of Washington. He is a recipient of CRA/NSF Computing Innovation Fellowship (2021), University of Iowa Research Excellence Award (2021) and CSAW Best Applied Research Award (3rd place, 2020).

In the News

Your smart speaker data is used in ways that you might not expect

Umar Iqbal and collaborators developed a framework to measure data collection, sharing and use by smart speaker platforms.

10.26.2023
Find more news about Umar Iqbal


Facebook
 
Twitter
 
LinkedIn
 
Instagram
 
YouTube
Engineering Departments
Biomedical Engineering
Computer Science & Engineering
Division of Engineering Education
Electrical & Systems Engineering
Energy, Environmental & Chemical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
Sever Institute - professional degrees
Technology & Leadership Center - training for industry
Contact Us
Washington University in St. Louis
McKelvey School of Engineering
MSC: 1100-122-303
1 Brookings Drive
St. Louis, MO 63130-4899
Contact Us
Resources
Canvas
Directory
Equity, Diversity & Inclusion
Emergency Management
Engineering IT
Maps & Directions
Make a Gift
WebFAC / WebSTAC

©2024 Washington University in St. Louis. Policies

