Professor: V. S. Subrahmanian
University: Northwestern University
URL: https://www.mccormick.northwestern.edu/research-faculty/directory/profiles/subrahmanian-vs.html
Description: NEWS & EVENTS
CONTACT & VISIT
INFO FOR
Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Companies
Search this site
Search
ABOUT
Overview
Discover our philosophy rooted in whole-brain thinking.
Leadership
Meet our deans, chairs, school leaders, and advisory council.
Departments & Institutes
Explore our academic departments, centers, and institutes that provide many opportunities for cross-disciplinary collaboration.
Facilities
View our facilities located in several connected buildings on the Evanston campus, plus a space in San Francisco.
Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion
See McCormick’s commitment that all students, faculty, and staff are welcome, respected, and able to fully engage in our community.
History
View our growth and timeline since the school was established in 1909.
Learn what it means to become a whole-brain engineer.

It takes a different way of thinking to connect disparate fields, put big ideas into action, and imagine what’s next.
LEARN MORE

ACADEMICS
Academics Overview
Explore our degrees, programs, courses, and other enrichment opportunities.
All Areas of Study
View a chart of all study areas cross-categorized by degree type.
Undergraduate Study
Explore majors, minors, student groups, research, enrichment, and support opportunities. Plan your visit to campus and start your application.
Graduate Study
Explore our full-time and part-time master's and PhD offerings and learn how to apply.
Departments and Programs
See a list of all academic departments and professional programs.
Apply to Northwestern Engineering
Learn more about the application process for your program of interest.
QUICK LINKS
Undergraduate Student Resources
Undergraduate Advising
Graduate Student Resources
Academic Integrity
Graduation Information
RESEARCH & FACULTY
Research Areas and Centers
View our interdisciplinary research centers, programs, and collaborations.
Faculty Directory
Meet our award-winning faculty, including several national academy members.
FACULTY FINDER
Search
OFFICES & SERVICES
Office of the Dean
Strategic vision and leadership
Administration, Finance, Facilities, & Planning
Infrastructure support including: finance, HR, facilities/space/safety
Alumni Relations & Development
School-level giving, including annual, estate, and memorial giving
Career Development
Career support including: Cooperative Education (Co-op), internships, service learning, and research
Corporate Engagement
Industry connections and partnerships
Customer Service Center
Reimbursements, office moves, lab, renovations, research appointments, and more
Faculty Affairs
Liaison between engineering faculty and the Provost's Office
Global Initiatives
Opportunities and resources to engage in global scholarly activity
Graduate Studies
MS and PhD student recruitment, admittance, and enrollment
Information Technology
Computer and technology support
Marketing & Communications
Promotion of school activities and consistent brand messaging
McCormick Advising System
Undergraduate student advising
Personal Development StudioLab
Student assistance with both their academic and extracurricular lives
Professional Education
Support for master's degree programs geared toward working or transitioning professionals
Research Offices
Faculty support in pursing/managing external funding for research
Undergraduate Engineering
Operations and administrative support for students and faculty
QUICK LINKS
Academic Departments
Facilities
Lost and Found
Faculty & Staff Resources
IN THIS SECTION
Research and Faculty
Faculty Directory
Faculty Fellows
FACULTY DIRECTORY
V.S. Subrahmanian

Walter P. Murphy Professor of Computer Science

Faculty Fellow at the Northwestern Buffett Institute for Global Affairs

Contact
2233 Tech Drive
Mudd Room 3013
Evanston, IL 60208-3109

Email V.S. Subrahmanian
Departments

Computer Science

Education

PhD in Computer Science, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY

MS in Computer Science, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY

MSc (Tech.) in Computer Science, Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani, India



Research Interests

V.S. Subrahmanian focuses on the intersection of AI and security problems. He develops machine learning based models to analyze text/geospatial/relational/social network data, learn behavioral models from the data, forecast actions, and influence outcomes. His models have been used to forecast terror attacks and terror network evolution, to reduce poaching, to identify bad actors on social media, to forecast systemic banking crises, to maximize airline profits, to predict if apps are malware or not, and more. His work has also been used to shape international security policies.



Selected Publications
Q. Han, S. Mandujano, S. Porst, V.S. Subrahmanian, S. Tetali, and Y. Xiong. The Android Malware Handbook Detection and Analysis by Human and Machine, NoStarch Press, Nov 2023. https://nostarch.com/androidmalwaredetection
 Y. Zhang, S. Chakrabarty, R. Liu, A. Pugliese, V.S. Subrahmanian. SockDef: A Dynamically Adaptive Defense to a Novel Attack on Review Fraud Detection Engines, accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Computational Social Systems, Sep. 2023.
 Y. Zhang, D. Chen, S. Jajodia, A. Pugliese, V.S. Subrahmanian, and Y. Xiong. GAIT: A Game-Theoretic Defense Against Intellectual Property Theft, accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Dependable & Secure Computing, July 2023.
L. Pajola, D. Chen, M. Conti, and V.S. Subrahmanian. A Novel Review Helpfulness Measure based on the User-Review-Item Paradigm, accepted for publication in ACM Transactions on the Web, January 2023.
D. Byman, C. Gao, C. Meserole and V.S. Subrahmanian. Deepfakes and International Conflict. Foreign Policy at Brookings brief. January 2023.
 G. Apruzzese and V.S. Subrahmanian. Mitigating Adversarial Gray-Box Attacks Against Phishing Detectors, to appear in IEEE Transactions on Dependable & Security Computing, accepted Sep 2022.
Y. Zhang, B. An, and V.S. Subrahmanian. Computing Optimal Nash Equilibria in Multiplayer Games, Proc. NeurIPS 2023, New Orleans, December 2023.
 R.J. Fokkink, J.F. Brethouwer, K.T. Greene, R. Lindelauf, V.S. Subrahmanian, C. Tornquist. Rising tension in the Himalayas: a Geospatial Analysis of Chinese Border Incursions into India, accepted for publication in PloS One,  17(11), November 2022.




 
BACK TO TOP
Northwestern Seal

McCormick School of Engineering,  Northwestern University

Technological Institute, 2145 Sheridan Road, Evanston, IL 60208

view all contact info

AdmissionsFaculty DirectoryGive to McCormickTech Room Finder / MapsEmergency InformationNorthwestern HomeTech Lost and FoundReport an Accessibility Issue
McCormick on twitterMcCormick on facebookMcCormick on linkedinMcCormick on instagramMcCormick on youtube
© 2024  Robert R. McCormick School of Engineering and Applied Science, Northwestern University  Disclaimer

