Professor: Venkata Gandikota
University: Syracuse University
URL: https://sites.google.com/view/gvenkata
Description: Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
Welcome	
HomePublicationsTeachingStudents
	
VENKATA GANDIKOTA (GV)
Address: CST 4-206B,  
Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY 13210


E-mail:  <lastname>[dot]<firstname>[at]gmail[dot]com
Assistant Professor,
Electrical Engineering  and Computer Science Department, Syracuse University.
Affiliate Faculty at EnCORE: Institute for Emerging CORE Methods of Data Science.
Research overview: My research aims to identify the algorithmic limits of various data analysis tasks. In particular, we leverage the combinatorial properties of error-correcting codes to design efficient and robust algorithms for various machine learning tasks such as distributed learning and sparse recovery. We exploit the key idea of introducing "structured redundancy" that facilitates the design of computationally efficient noise-resilient algorithms for many computational tasks. 

Research Interests: 

Foundations of Machine Learning

Algorithms for Big Data

Coding Theory & Lattices

Information Theory

Links:

Foundations of Data Science Virtual Talk Series
Encore Institute 

Biography: 

I am an Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at Syracuse University.  I am also an affiliate faculty at EnCore: Institute for Emerging CORE Methods in Data Science, and an IEEE senior member.  My research interests include coding theory, lattices, and their applications to foundational machine learning tasks. A part of my research is supported by the CUSE and SOURCE RA grants. Before joining SU, I was a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, and Johns Hopkins University I received my Ph.D. in Computer Science from Purdue University I completed my undergraduate Mathematics (MSc) & Computer Science (BE) from Birla Institute of Technology & Science, Goa, India. 

Google Sites
Report abuse

