Professor: Vidya Muthukumar
University: Georgia Institute of Technology
URL: https://vmuthukumar.ece.gatech.edu/
Description: Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar

VIDYA MUTHUKUMAR

HOME
 
BIOGRAPHY
 
RESEARCH
 
PUBLICATIONS
 
TEACHING/ADVISING
 
SERVICE
 
MUSIC
Home

I am an Assistant Professor in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering and H. Milton Stewart School of Industrial and Systems Engineering at Georgia Institute of Technology. I received the B.Tech (with honors) degree from the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras and the Ph.D. degree in Electrical Engineering from University of California, Berkeley. Before joining Georgia Tech, I spent a semester at the Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing as a research fellow for the program “Theory of Reinforcement Learning.”

My broad interests are in game theory, online and statistical learning. I am particularly interested in designing learning algorithms that provably adapt in strategic environments, fundamental properties of overparameterized models, and the foundations of multi-agent decision-making. In my spare time, I enjoy singing Carnatic vocal music, playing the piano, and long-distance cycling.

See here for a more formal bio in the third person.

Recent News
July 2024: My student Kuo-Wei Lai is presenting our work on sharp out-of-distribution error analysis of importance-weighted classifiers at IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory 2024. Congratulations, Kuo-Wei!
June 2024: I presented our work on the algorithmic complexity of infinite-horizon general-sum stochastic games at the Dagstuhl workshop on Stochastic Games.
April 2024: Our work on the good, bad and ugly sides of data augmentation, led by Chi-Heng (Henry) Lin and Chiraag Kaushik, is published at Journal of Machine Learning Research. Congratulations, Henry and Chiraag!
Feb 2024: I’m chairing the second ITALT symposium that will be co-located with the annual Information Theory and Applications Workshop, and the Algorithmic Learning Theory Conference in San Diego! Details about the symposium here.
Dec 2023: My students Guanghui Wang and Tyler LaBonte presented their papers on faster margin maximization rates for generic optimization methods, and towards last-layer retraining for group robustness with fewer annotations at NeurIPS 2023. Congratulations, Guanghui and Tyler!
Dec 2023: I will be co-presenting a tutorial at NeurIPS 2023 on Dec 11 on “Reconsidering overfitting in the age of overparameterized models” with Spencer Frei and Fanny Yang. Schedule of all tutorials here!
Oct 2023: We had a wonderful experience organizing Learning Theory Alliance’s annual mentorship workshop! Thanks to my amazing co-organizers and all of our invited speakers, mentors and volunteers.
Oct 2023: My student Guanghui Wang and I presented our work on adaptive oracle-efficient online learning at the INFORMS Annual Meeting.
Oct 2023: Our work on benign overfitting in multiclass classification (joint with Ke Wang and Christos Thrampoulidis) is now published in IEEE Transactions on Information Theory.
Sept 2023: I will be speaking about our group’s efforts on understanding interpolation in classification and regression tasks at the Mini-Workshop: Interpolation and Over-parameterization in Statistics and Machine Learning at Mathematisches Forschungsinstitut Oberwolfach.
Summer and Fall 2023: Enjoyed giving talks at SIAM OP23, JSM 2023, the Math-ML seminar at MPI/UCLA, and Deepmath 2023 on our work on equivalences of loss functions at training in the overparameterized regime.
April 2023: Congratulations to my student Kuo-Wei Lai for winning the 2023 Outstanding ECE Graduate Teaching Assistant Award!
Primary Sidebar
Vidya Muthukumar

Assistant Professor
Schools of ECE and ISyE
Georgia Institute of Technology
vmuthukumar8 [at] gatech [dot] edu
Coda S1139
Google Scholar

EDUCATION

Ph.D. Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (2020), University of California Berkeley

B.Tech. (with honors), Electrical Engineering (2014), Indian Institute of Technology Madras

Copyright © 2024 · eleven40 Pro on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in

Home
 
Biography
 
Research
 
Publications
 
Teaching/Advising
 
Service
 
Music

