Professor: Vladimir Vapnik
University: Columbia University
URL: http://datascience.columbia.edu/vladimir-vapnik
Description: Faculty Students Alumni Events Data Science Day Industry Work with Us Apply Contact Us Giving
About 
 
Education 
 
Research 
 
Outreach 
 
Diversity 
 
People 
 
News and Insights 
 
 Faculty
 
Vladimir Vapnik
The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science
Professor of Computer Science
 vladimir.vapnik@gmail.com
 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vladimir_Vapnik
Center Affiliations

Foundations of Data Science
Affiliated Member

Professor Vapnik gained his Masters Degree in Mathematics in 1958 at Uzbek State University, Samarkand, USSR. From 1961 to 1990 he worked at the Institute of Control Sciences, Moscow, where he became Head of the Computer Science Research Department. He then joined AT&T Bell Laboratories, Holmdel, NJ, having been appointed Professor of Computer Science and Statistics at Royal Holloway in 1995.

Professor Vapnik has taught and researched in computer science, theoretical and applied statistics for over 30 years. He has published 6 monographs and over a hundred research papers. His major achievements have been the development of a general theory of minimizing the expected risk using empirical data and a new type of learning machine called Support Vector machine that possesses a high level of generalization ability. These techniques have been used to solve many pattern recognition and regression estimation problems and have been applied to the problems of dependency estimation, forecasting, and constructing intelligent machines. His current research is presented in his latest books “Statistical Learning Theory”, Wiley, 1998, and “The Nature of Statistical Learning Theory”, second edition, Springer, 2000.

He was one of the invited speakers at the Colloquium “The Importance of being Learnable” hosted by the Computer Learning Research Centre at Royal Holloway in September 1998.

Newsletter
Stay informed. Sign up for our newsletter.
First Name 
Last Name 
Email Address 
Organization 
Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, research, and more.
SUBMIT
Questions? Email:  datascience@columbia.edu.
Northwest Corner, 550 W 120th St
#1401, New York, NY 10027
(212) 854-5660
About
Home
Data for Good
Work with Us
Donate
Contact Us
News
People
Education
M.S. in Data Science
Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science
Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences
Executive Education
DSI Scholars
Student Services
Alumni Services
Columbia Data Science Society
Data Science Education Across Columbia
Research Centers
Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science
Cybersecurity
Data, Media and Society
Financial and Business Analytics
Foundations of Data Science
Health Analytics
Sense, Collect and Move Data
Smart Cities
Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency
Focus Areas
Foundations of Data Science
Health Care
Climate
Business and Finance
Social Justice
Working Groups
Computational Social Science
Materials Discovery Analytics
Education
Outreach
Events
Industry Affiliates Program
Campus Connections
Entrepreneurship
Columbia University Terms Privacy
© The Data Science Institute at Columbia University Created by Constructive

