Professor: William J. Beksi
University: University of Texas at Arlington
URL: http://ranger.uta.edu/~wjbeksi
Description: Google Scholar  /  CV

William J. Beksi

I am an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Texas at Arlington. I'm also the founder and director of the Robotic Vision Laboratory. My research focuses on robot perception, robot learning, and autonomous systems. I am interested in developing algorithms that enable machines to learn from their interactions with the physical world and autonomously acquire skills necessary to execute complex tasks over time.

Prospective students: If you are a current student at UT Arlington then please fill out this form. Otherwise, please apply directly to the PhD program and mention my name in your application. I am actively recruiting undergraduate/graduate students, who are U.S. citizens, to work on DoD and USDA projects.

Email: william.beksi at uta.edu
Office: Engineering Research Building 523, 500 UTA Blvd, Arlington, TX 76019

News

My PhD student Nolan Gutierrez was awarded a DoD SMART scholarship
I will be a 2024 ONR Summer Faculty Fellow at NSWCDD
Our AFRL-sponsored 3D computer vision project was featured as a UTA news release
I'll serve as an Associate Editor for IROS 2024
I will serve as a Guest Editor for a Drones special issue on Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning in UAV Technology
I presented my lab's latest work to the AFRL Materials and Manufacturing Directorate
I will serve as an Associate Editor for IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering
Show more ...

Publications
Semi-Supervised Variational Adversarial Active Learning via Learning to Rank and Agreement-Based Pseudo Labeling

Z. Lyu and W.J. Beksi
International Conference on Pattern Recognition (ICPR), 2024
Paper  •   Supplement  •   Preprint  •   Source Code  •   Citation

Few-Shot Fruit Segmentation via Transfer Learning

J.A. James, H.K. Manching, A.M. Hulse-Kemp, and W.J. Beksi
IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2024
Paper  •   Preprint  •   Source Code  •   Citation

NTrack: A Multiple-Object Tracker and Dataset for Infield Cotton Boll Counting

M.A.A Muzaddid and W.J. Beksi
IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering, 2023
Paper  •   Preprint  •   Website  •   Citation

IPVNet: Learning Implicit Point-Voxel Features for Open-Surface 3D Reconstruction

M.S. Arshad and W.J. Beksi
Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, 2023
Paper  •   Preprint  •   Source Code  •   Citation

LIST: Learning Implicitly from Spatial Transformers for Single-View 3D Reconstruction

M.S. Arshad and W.J. Beksi
IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), 2023
Paper  •   Supplement  •   Preprint  •   Source Code  •   Citation

Lunar Excavator Mission Operations using Dynamic Movement Primitives

J.M. Cloud, M.Q. Tram, W.J. Beksi, and M.A. DuPuis
IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), 2023
Paper  •   Preprint  •   Citation

Show more ...
Teaching

Artificial Intelligence I (CSE 4308/5360), Fall 2023
Artificial Intelligence I (CSE 4308/5360), Fall 2022
Computer Vision (CSE 6367), Spring 2022
Show more ...

Sponsors
                                                           

