Professor: Yanjun Han
University: New York University
URL: https://yanjunhan2021.github.io/index.html
Description: Home
Publications
Reports
Teaching
	
Yanjun Han
 	

Assistant Professor of Mathematics and Data Science,
Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Center for Data Science, and Computer Science Department (affiliated),
New York University

I received my B.E. in Electronic Engineering from Tsinghua University in Jul 2015, and my M.S. and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University in Aug 2021, under the supervision of Tsachy Weissman. I was a postdoctoral scholar at the Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing, University of California, Berkeley in 2021-22, and a Norbert Wiener postdoctoral associate at the Statistics and Data Science Center (SDSC) in MIT IDSS in 2022-23.

I am broadly interested in the mathematics of data science, including statistics, learning theory, bandits, and information theory.

Recent papers

Causal Inference with High-dimensional Discrete Covariates
with Zhenghao Zeng, Sivaraman Balakrishnan, and Edward H. Kennedy, May 2024.

Prediction from compression for models with infinite memory, with applications to hidden Markov and renewal processes
with Tianze Jiang and Yihong Wu, Apr. 2024.

Online Estimation via Offline Estimation: An Information-Theoretic Framework
with Dylan J. Foster, Jian Qian, and Alexander Rakhlin, Apr. 2024.

Stochastic contextual bandits with graph feedback: from independence number to MAS number
with Yuxiao Wen and Zhengyuan Zhou, Feb. 2024.

Covariance alignment: from maximum likelihood estimation to Gromov--Wasserstein
with Philippe Rigollet and George Stepaniants, Nov. 2023.

Contact

Email: yanjunhan [at] nyu [dot] edu

Office: WWH 1110 or CDS 705

Due to the large volume of emails that I receive, I generally do not respond to unsolicited inquiries about student or postdoc openings; please apply through Courant or CDS programs. Nevertheless, if you have a strong quantitative background and think your interests are compatible with mine, please feel free to contact me.

