Professor: Yasser Shoukry
University: Univ. of California - Irvine
URL: https://rcpsl.eng.uci.edu/yshoukry
Description: Log In
Search
Skip to content
Welcome
People
Research
Publications
Teaching
Outreach
News
Videos
GitHub
Yasser Shoukry

Associate Professor
Resilient Cyber-Physical Systems Lab
Center for Embedded Systems and Cyber-Physical Systems
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
I am an associate professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of California, Irvine where I direct the Resilient Cyber-Physical Systems Lab. Before joining UCI, I spent two years as an assistant professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Maryland, College Park. Before that, I was a joint postdoctoral associate at the University of California, Berkeley, University of California, Los Angeles, and the University of Pennsylvania working with Prof. George J. Pappas, Prof. Sanjit A. Seshia, and Prof. Paulo Tabuada. I received my Ph.D. from the Electrical Engineering Department at the University of California, Los Angeles in 2015 under the supervision of Prof. Paulo Tabuada and Prof. Mani Srivastava. My research goal is to develop algorithms and tools to reason about the resilience, security, and privacy of Artificial Intelligence (AI) controlled Cyber-Physical Systems and Internet-of-Things (IoT), in general, and robotic systems, in particular, providing a scientific basis to understand their fundamental properties and guide their design. My work spans both theoretical and experimental aspects of CPS and draws on tools from formal methods, embedded systems, control theory, and machine learning.
Education
Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering
University of California, Los Angeles, 2015
Dissertation: “Security and Privacy in Cyber-Physical Systems: Attacks and Countermeasures” Distinguished PhD Dissertation Award!
M.Sc. in Computer and Systems Engineering
Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt, 2010
Thesis: “Model Predictive Control (MPC) on Chip”
B.Sc. in Computer and Systems Engineering
Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt, 2007
Awards
Advisee Valen Yamamoto is the Winner of the ACM SIGBED Student Research Competition (undergraduate category),  September 2023.
Advisee Ulices Santa Cruz is a Finalist in the ACM SIGBED Student Research Competition (graduate category), September 2023.
International Verification of Neural Networks Competition (VNN-COMP’22) Category Winner Award for “the top performing tool in the tllverifybench Benchmark of the VNN competition,” December 2022.
IEEE TC-CPS Early-Career Award, from IEEE Technical Committee on Cyber-Physical Systems for “contributions to the theory and design of safe learning-enabled cyber-physical systems,” June 2021.
Advisee Xiaowu Sun is a Finalist in the ACM SIGBED Student Research Competition (graduate category), April 2021.
George Corcoran Memorial Award, presented to young faculty who “has shown exemplary contributions to teaching and educational leadership,” UMD, July 2019.
NSF CAREER Award, February 2019.
Best Demo Award, 16th ACM/IEEE International Conference on Information Processing in Sensor Networks (IPSN), CPS Week, April 2017.
Distinguished Ph.D. Dissertation Award, EE Department, UCLA, 2016.
Best Paper Award, ACM/IEEE 7th International Conference on Cyber-Physical Systems (ICCPS), CPS Week, April 2016.
Winner, NSF Cyber-Physical Systems Early-Career Investigator’s (NSF-ECI) Research Competition, CPS Week, April 2015.
Preliminary Exam Fellowship, EE Department, UCLA, February 2012.
Chancellor Prize Fellowship, EE Department, UCLA, Summer 2011,2012.
Graduate Division Fellowship, EE Department, UCLA, 2011/2012.
Contact Information
Office: 4207 Engineering Hall, Irvine, CA 92697
Lab: 4111 Engineering Hall, Irvine, CA 92697

Email: yshoukry@uci.edu

Phone: (949) 824-8147

 

Resilient Cyber-Physical Systems Lab
Room: 4111 Engineering Hall
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
University of California, Irvine

