Professor: Yisong Yue
University: California Institute of Technology
URL: http://www.yisongyue.com/
Description: Yisong Yue | Machine Learning Professor @ 
Home | News | About | Group | Research | Teaching | Etc.
Yisong Yue (he/him)
California Institute of Technology
1200 E. California Blvd.
CMS, 305-16
Pasadena, CA 91125

Office: 303 Annenberg

Contact Information >

      
About
I am a professor of Computing and Mathematical Sciences at the California Institute of Technology. My research interests lie primarily in machine learning, and span the entire theory-to-application spectrum from foundational advances all the way to deployment in real systems. I work closely with domain experts to understand the frontier challenges in applied machine learning, distill those challenges into mathematically precise formulations, and develop novel methods to tackle them.

Latitude AI: I am currently a (part-time) Principal Scientist at Latitude AI, where I work on machine learning approaches to behavior modeling and motion planning for autonomous driving.

Asari AI: I am a founding advisor for Asari AI, where I help design AI co-inventors (AI agents that can plan, abstract, and verify complex design tasks).

ICLR 2025: I am serving as the General Chair at ICLR 2025. The Program Chairs are Carl Vondrick (SPC), Rose Yu, Violet Peng, Fei Sha, Animesh Garg.
about me >
research >
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
I am committed to promoting diversity, equity, and inclusion in my research group, in my courses, within the CMS department, at Caltech more broadly, and within my research communities.
Diversity -- I recognize that diversity, in all its shapes and forms, strengthens us both culturally and intellectually.
Equity -- I will fight for equal treatment of all people, regardless of race, gender, sexual orientation, or any other attributes that do not define a person's academic and research potential.
Inclusion -- I will work to create an inclusive working environment, so that everyone feels their voices are heard and their contributions are recognized.
Read more about diversity, equity, and inclusion at the CMS Department and EAS Division at Caltech.
Current Research
My current research interests can be broadly organized into three overlapping groups:

AI for Autonomy: study how AI methods can enable novel capabilities in autonomous systems; characterize and address key technical bottlenecks (e.g., data-driven safety guarantees); deploy in real systems.
Selected Publications

AI for Science: study how AI methods can improve workflows in science and accelerate knowledge discovery; develop methods for automated experiment design and human-intelligible modeling; deploy in real systems.
Selected Publications

Core AI/ML Research: study the underlying fundamental questions pertaining practical algorithm design, inspired by real-world applications in science and engineering.
Selected Publications
more publications >
News & Announcements
SceneCraft: An LLM Agent for Synthesizing 3D Scene as Blender Code -- we developed a Large Language Model (LLM) Agent for converting text descriptions into Blender-executable Python scripts which render complex scenes with up to a hundred 3D assets. This process requires complex spatial planning and arrangemet, which we tackle through a combination of advanced abstraction, strategic planning, and library learning. [arxiv]

Tokenized Time Series Embeddings -- we developed a framework for learning a tokenization for downstream time series modeling, including training generalist models that can be applied to many domains. [arxiv][code]

Symbolic Music Generation with Non-Differentiable Rule Guided Diffusion -- we developed a method for guided diffusion using non-differentiable rules, called Stochastic Control Guidance. Our approach is inspired by path integral control and can be applied in a plug-and-play way to any diffusion model. We demonstrate our approach on symbolic music generation. [arxiv][website]
   
SustainGym: we have released a suite of environments designed to test the performance of RL algorithms on realistic sustainability tasks. [project][code]
Farewell! We had three members depart the group during the 2022-2023 Academic Year:
Jennifer Sun completed her Ph.D. and will start as an Assistant Professor at Cornell.
Cameron Voloshin completed his Ph.D. and has started at Latitude AI.
Victor Dorobantu completed his Ph.D. and has started a postdoc at MIT.
ICLR 2024: I will be serving as the Senior Program Chair at ICLR 2024. The rest of Program Chair team includes Swarat Chaudhuri, Katerina Fragkiadaki, Emtiyaz Khan, and Yizhou Sun.

Automatic Gradient Descent: We have developed a new hyperparameter-free optimizer for deep neural networks. Our method has been demonstrated at ImageNet scale using ResNet50 architectures.
[arxiv][code][blog post]
Conformal Generative Modeling: We have developed a new framework for generative modeling that works on a wide range of manifolds. [project]

more >
[All Content © 2024 Yisong Yue]

