Professor: Yuankai Huo
University: Vanderbilt University
URL: https://my.vanderbilt.edu/huolab
Description:  
  Explore VU 
Skip to main content
Home
HRLB Lab
Carousel content with 0 slides.

A carousel is a rotating set of images, rotation stops on keyboard focus on carousel tab controls or hovering the mouse pointer over images. Use the tabs or the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide.

Previous
Next

 

Please visit our new lab website
https://hrlblab.github.io

	

Yuankai Huo, Ph.D.

Assistant Professor

Computer Science, Data Science
Department of EECS, Data Science Institute
Vanderbilt University

Office: 376 Featheringill Hall (FGH)
Email: yuankai.huo@vanderbilt.edu


[Curriculum Vitae], [Google Scholar], [Linkedin], [ORCiD], [PubMed]

Dr. Yuankai Huo is an Assistant Professor in Computer Science at Vanderbilt University, TN, USA. He received his B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Nanjing University of Posts and Telecommunications (NJUPT) in 2008, and Master degree in Electrical Engineering from Southeast University in 2011. After graduation, He worked in Columbia University and New York State Psychiatric Institute as a staff engineer and research officer from 2011 to 2014. He received his Master degree in Computer Science from Columbia University in 2014, and Ph.D. degree in Electrical Engineering from Vanderbilt University in 2018. Then, he had worked as a Research Assistant Professor at Vanderbilt University, and later, a Senior Research Scientist at PAII Labs. Since 2020, he has been a faculty member at the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, and Data Science Institute, Vanderbilt University.

 

Your Vanderbilt
Alumni
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
International Students
Media
Parents & Family
Prospective Students
Researchers
Sports Fans
Visitors & Neighbors

Quick Links
PeopleFinder
Libraries
News
Calendar
Maps
A-Z

© 2024 Vanderbilt University · All rights reserved. Site Development: Digital Strategies (Division of Communications)
Vanderbilt University is committed to the principle of equal opportunity. Vanderbilt University does not discriminate against individuals on the basis of their race, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, color, national or ethnic origin, age, disability, military service, or genetic information in its administration of educational policies, programs, or activities; admissions policies; scholarship and loan programs; athletic or other University-administered programs; or employment. Accessibility information.
Vanderbilt®, Vanderbilt University® and the Vanderbilt logos are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University.

