Professor: Yuanyuan Feng
University: University of Vermont
URL: http://www.yuanyuanfeng.com/
Description: Yuanyuan Feng (冯园媛), Ph.D.
	
Research
	
Teaching
	
Students
	
CV
	
Contact
Yuanyuan Feng

Human-computer interation & data privacy researcher

Assistant Professor in Computer Science at University of Vermont

 Burlington, VT, USA
 Twitter
 Google Scholar
 ORCID

I’m an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Vermont (UVM). Before joining UVM, I was a postdoctoral researcher in the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) and earned my PhD degree from the College of Computing & Informatics at Drexel University.

My Research is at the intersection of human-computer interaction (HCI), usable security & privacy, trustworthy artificial intelligence (AI), and health informatics. I investigate technical, societal, and interdisciplinary research questions towards building an ideal future where computing technologies can leverage people’s personal data in appropriate, ethical, and meaningful ways.

Please see the Students page for my PhD recruitment plan.

News

(Apr 2024) Excited to share my CRII award – A Contextual Integrity Approach for Privacy Reasoning Regarding Performance Tracking Technologies in US College Athletics. Many thanks to U.S. National Science Foundation!

(Oct 2023) My first-authored paper, titled “Understanding how to inform blind and low-vision users about data privacy through privacy question answering assistants”, is accepted by the 2024 USENIX Security Symposium! Read our preprint for insights into blind and low-vision users’ expectations when it comes to usability, accessibility, trust and equity issues regarding digital data privacy.

(July 2023) My co-authored paper, titled “Exploring smart commercial building occupants’ perceptions and notification preferences of Internet of Things data collection in the United States”, published by the 2023 IEEE European Symposium on Security and Privacy (EuroS&P)!

(July 2022) Happy to share our paper, titled “How usable are iOS app privacy labels?”, that examines the usability of Apple’s iOS app privacy label from end users’ perspective. Published in the Proceedings of Privacy Enhancing Technologies (PoPETS). Read CyLab’s news article about this research!

(June 2022) We presented our published paper “Stop the spread: A contextual integrity perspective on the appropriateness of COVID-19 vaccination certificates” at the ACM Conference on Fairness, accountability, and Transparency (FAccT’22) !

© 2024 Yuanyuan Feng. Powered by Jekyll & AcademicPages, a fork of Minimal Mistakes.

