Professor: Yuanyuan Shi
University: Univ. of California - San Diego
URL: https://yyshi.eng.ucsd.edu/
Description: Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
Yuanyuan Shi	
HomeGroupResearchTeachingJoinCV
	
Biography

I am an Assistant Professor in the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department at UCSD. I am also affiliated with the Center for Energy Research and the Center for Machine Intelligence, Computing & Security. My research interests broadly lie in machine learning, dynamical systems, and control, with applications to sustainable energy systems and other intelligent systems. 

I received my Ph.D. (2020) in Electrical and Computer Engineering and M.S. (2020) in Statistics from the University of Washington advised by Prof.Baosen Zhang on the topic of machine learning and control for energy systems. Prior to UCSD, I spent 1 year as a postdoc fellow at Caltech advised by Prof. Adam Wierman and Prof. Anima Anandkumar, and several research internships in Google DeepMind, JD Research, and Doosan Gridtech. 

Prospective Students

We are looking for highly motivated and self-driven Ph.D. students and postdoctoral candidates with a strong mathematical background and foundation in machine learning, control, and energy systems. We have 2 openings for Ph.D. students to start in FALL 2024 (Application Deadline: 2023/12/20). There are also positions for master/undergraduate research. If you are currently at UCSD, please fill out the Application Form first and send me an email with your resume and UCSD transcript once you filled out the application. For all other applicants: If you are interested in visiting opportunities, please fill out Visiting Scholar Form and send me an email.

News

2024/01: Honored to receive the Jacobs School Early-Career Faculty Acceleration Award for our collaborative work with Prof. Jingbo Shang on foundation model for smart building learning and control.

2023/12: Our lab and collaborators presented two papers at NeurIPS 2023!

Neural-PI Control with End-to-End Stability and Output Tracking Guarantees (We design a multi-input multi-output monotone neural network structure that guarantee stability of multi-agent RL in networked systems with passivity. The monotone neural network design can flexibly handle different communication structures: decentralized, distributed, and centralized!)

SustainGym: Reinforcement Learning Environments for Sustainability Applications (A suite of Gym environments designed to test Multi-agent RL algorithms on sustainability tasks, including EVChargingEnv, ElectricityMarketEnv, DatacenterEnv, CogenEnv, BuildingEnv, with real-world data)

2023/12: Our lab and collaborators presented five papers at IEEE CDC 2023!

Neural Operators for Hyperbolic PDE Backstepping Feedback Laws

Neural Operators for Hyperbolic PDE Backstepping Kernels

Leveraging Predictions in Power System Frequency Control: an Adaptive Approach

KCRL: Krasovskii-Constrained Reinforcement Learning with Guaranteed Stability in Nonlinear Discrete-Time Systems

Bridging Transient and Steady-State Performance in Voltage Control: A Reinforcement Learning Approach With Safe Gradient Flow

2023/10:  Our paper on "Optimal Vehicle Charging in Bilevel Power-Traffic Networks via Charging Demand Function" is accepted for publication in the IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid. The paper investigate the coordination of large-scale EV charging by considering both the transportation and power network physical constraints, via a novel design of EV charging demand function. Congrats Yufan! 

2023/08: We released a new real-world multi-zone building dataset BEAR-Data (1 building, 80+ zones with detailed zonal temperature and 17 control commands data about 8 months) for smart building research. The accompanied paper is accepted to ACM BuildSys 2023.

2023/08: Our paper Predicting Strategic Energy Storage Behaviors is accepted for publication in the IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid. Congrats Yuexin!

2023/08: Our paper Stability Constrained Reinforcement Learning for Decentralized Real-Time Voltage Control is accepted for publication in the IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems. Congrats Jie!

MORE NEWS 
Teaching

ECE 171B: Linear Control System Theory [2021 Fall] [2022 Fall] [2023 Fall]

ECE 228 Machine Learning for Physical Applications [2024 Spring]

Recent talks and Collaborators Talks

Demand Response Model Identification and Behavior Forecast with OptNet

Robust Online Voltage Control with Mistake Guarantee

GMT20230414-220259_Recording_1920x1050.mp4

Learning and Control for Energy Systems @UCSD MAE Department Seminar.





Contact 

Email: yyshi@ucsd.edu 

Office: Franklin Antonio Hall 

Copyright © Yuanyuan Shi. All rights reserved.  

Page updated
Report abuse

