Professor: Yuliya Lierler
University: University of Nebraska - Omaha
URL: https://www.unomaha.edu/college-of-information-science-and-technology/about/faculty-staff/yuliya-lierler.php
Description: Skip to main content
UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA OMAHA
APPLY
MY UNO
DIRECTORY
Search UNO
College of Information Science & Technology
About 
Academics 
Admissions 
Student Resources 
Community Engagement 
Research
Support Us
Yuliya Lierler
UNO
College of Information Science & Technology
About IS&T
Faculty & Staff Directory
Yuliya Lierler
Yuliya Lierler, Ph.D.
Associate Professor
Computer Science
email:
ylierler@unomaha.edu
office:
PKI  280D
office phone:
402.554.4911
lab room:
376
Google Scholar:
https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=KlTD9RQAAAAJ&hl=en
digital commons:
https://works.bepress.com/yuliya_lierler/


note:
This profile is pulling in data from Digital Measures. Postings on personal websites or social media do not indicate that the individual is speaking on behalf of UNO.
General Information
Biography

Yuliya Lierler is an Associate Professor at the Computer Science Department at the University of Nebraska Omaha. She has been appointed to the Cheryl Prewett Diamond Professorship in September, 2020. She is a director of the Knowledge Representation and Natural Language Understanding Lab.Yuliya Lierler served as a Computing Innovation Fellow Postdoc at the University of Kentucky for two years after completing her Ph.D. in Computer Science at the University of Texas at Austin in 2010.

Teaching Interests

Artificial intelligence; Formal methods in computer science; Knowledge representation; Natural Language processing and understanding.Sample Syllabi and Lecture Notes can be found here.

Research Interests

My research interests are in the field of artificial intelligence, especially in the area of knowledge representation, automated reasoning, declarative problem solving, and natural language understanding. My publications can be found here. The link to the Knowledge Representation and Natural Language Understanding Lab can be found here.

Service Summary

Co-Chair of the 38th International Conference on Logic Programming (ICLP), 2022; Co-Chair of the 15th International Conference on Logic Programming and Nonmonotonic Reasoning (LPNMR), 2019; Computer Science Graduate Program Committee Chair, 2018-2020; Co-Chair of the 19th International Symposium on Practical Aspects of Declarative Languages (PADL), 2017

Education

Ph D, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, USA, Computer Science, 2010

General Information
Biography
Teaching Interests
Research Interests
Service Summary
Education
College of Information Science & Technology
CONTACT US
College of Information Science & Technology
172 Peter Kiewit Institute
1110 South 67th Street
Omaha, NE 68182   map
402.554.2380
Contact Us
Social media
   
COLLEGE RESOURCES
Advising
Jobs and Internships
Research
News and Events
IS&T Technology Systems and Facilities
NEXT STEPS
Visit UNO
Request Information
Apply for Admission
The UNO Advantage
Our City (Omaha)
JUST FOR YOU
Future Students
Current Students
Work at UNO
Faculty and Staff
A-Z List
POPULAR SERVICES AND RESOURCES
my.unomaha.edu
Academic Calendar
Campus Buildings & Maps
Library
Pay Your Bill
Course Catalogs
Internships & Career Development
The Maverick Store
MavCARD Services
Military-Connected Resource Center
Speech Center
Writing Center
Human Resources
Center for Faculty Excellence
AFFILIATES
University of Nebraska System
NU Foundation
Buffett Early Childhood Institute
Daugherty Water for Food Institute
National Strategic Research Institute
Peter Kiewit Institute
Rural Prosperity Nebraska
UNIVERSITY POLICIES
PRIVACY STATEMENT
ACCESSIBILITY
 
Toggle theme
402.554.2800
University of Nebraska Omaha
University of Nebraska Omaha, 6001 Dodge Street, Omaha, NE, 68182 
© 2024  
Emergency Information Alert
MavsReport
SOCIAL MEDIA
    

Our Campus. Otherwise Known as Omaha.

The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based on race, color, ethnicity, national origin, sex, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, disability, age, genetic information, veteran status, marital status, and/or political affiliation in its education programs or activities, including admissions and employment. The University prohibits any form of retaliation taken against anyone for reporting discrimination, harassment, or retaliation for otherwise engaging in protected activity. Read the full statement.

COOKIE USAGE: 

The University of Nebraska uses cookies to give you the best online experience. By clicking “I ACCEPT” and/or continuing to use this website without adjusting your browser settings, you accept the use of cookies. View Privacy Statement

I ACCEPT

