Professor: Yunxin Zhao
University: University of Missouri
URL: https://engineering.missouri.edu/faculty/yunxin-zhao
Description: Skip to navigation
Skip to content

MU Logo

University of Missouri
Faculty Directory
Staff Directory
Calendar & Events
News
Give
Search
search
Mizzou Engineering
Academicsarrow_drop_down
Admissionsarrow_drop_down
Departmentsarrow_drop_down
Researcharrow_drop_down
Student Servicesarrow_drop_down
Aboutarrow_drop_down
Apply Now
YUNXIN ZHAO - MIZZOU ENGINEERING
Yunxin Zhao
Professor

247A Naka Hall

Phone: 573-882-3374

Email: zhaoy@missouri.edu

Electrical Engineering and Computer Science

Biography

Yunxin Zhao is a professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Missouri. She is a recipient of the National Science Foundation’s CAREER Award, Zhao has published more than 150 journal and conference papers and has been granted seven U.S. patents. Zhao’s research has been funded by the National Science Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, the Whitaker Foundation, the U.S. Army, Microsoft Research, Office of Naval Research through SBIR, Coulter Translational Partnership Program, Missouri Spinal Cord Injury/Disease Research Program (SCIDRP), industry, and the Advanced Telecommunication Research Institute of Japan.

Education

PhD from the University of Washington
MS from the University of Washington
BS from the Beijing Institute of Posts and Telecommunications

Technical Focus

Speech and language processing
Machine learning and signal processing
Biomedical applications

Chemical and Biomedical Engineering
Civil and Environmental Engineering
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Engineering and Information Technology
Industrial and Systems Engineering
Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering

MU Logo

University of Missouri
Contact us

College of Engineering

engineering@missouri.edu

W1024 Lafferre Hall

Columbia, MO 65211

Phone: (573) 882-4375

MU is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, visit MU’s Nondiscrimination Policy or the Office of Institutional Equity.

© 2024 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy

