Professor: Yuxin Chen 0002
University: University of Pennsylvania
URL: https://statistics.wharton.upenn.edu/profile/yuxinc
Description: Skip to content
Skip to main menu
Faculty
Youth Program
Undergrad
MBA
EMBA
PhD
Exec Ed
Wharton Online
Alumni
Search Wharton
Department of Statistics and Data Science
Home
Faculty
Recruiting
Research
Programs
Resources
Department Information
Find an Expert
Yuxin Chen
Associate Professor of Statistics and Data Science
Associate Professor of Electrical and Systems Engineering (secondary appointment)
Contact Information
Primary Email:
yuxinc@wharton.upenn.edu
Office Address:


313 Academic Research Building
265 South 37th Street
Philadelphia, PA 19104

Research Interests: statistics, optimization, reinforcement learning, machine learning theory, information theory, statistical machine learning

Links: Personal Website, Google Scholar

Overview
Research
Teaching
Awards and Honors
Overview

For more information, please visit my Personal Website.

Openings

I’m looking for highly motivated postdocs and Ph. D. students with strong mathematical background and interest in machine learning theory, statistics, and optimization.

Education

Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering, Stanford University, 2015 (Advisor: Andrea J. Goldsmith)
M.S. in Statistics, Stanford University, 2013
M.S. in Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Texas at Austin, 2010
B.E. in Electrical Engineering / Microelectronics, Tsinghua University, 2008

Academic Positions Held

Associate Professor of Statistics and Data Science,
Associate Professor of Electrical and Systems Engineering (secondary appointment),
The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, 2022-present

Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
Associated Faculty Member of Computer Science and of Applied and Computational Mathematics,
Princeton University,  2017-2021

Postdoctoral Researcher, Department of Statistics
Stanford University, 2015-2017 (Advisor: Emmanuel J. Candès)

Activity
Latest Research
Changxiao Cai, H Vincent Poor, Yuxin Chen (2022), Uncertainty Quantification for Nonconvex Tensor Completion: Confidence Intervals, Heteroscedasticity and Optimality, accepted to IEEE Transactions on Information Theory.
ALL RESEARCH
Additional Links 
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
Support Wharton
©2024 The Wharton School,  The University of Pennsylvania  |  Department of Statistics and Data Science  |  Privacy Policy  |  Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help

