Professor: Zhenhua Liu 0002
University: Stony Brook University
URL: https://www.cs.stonybrook.edu/people/faculty/ZhenhuaLiu
Description: Skip to main content
Department of Computer Science

Main menu
HOME
ABOUT US
ADMISSIONS
PEOPLE
RESEARCH
PROGRAMS
GIVING
Zhenhua Liu
Assistant Professor, AMS

Department of Applied Mathematics and Statistics
Stony Brook University
Stony Brook, NY 11794-3600

Website (URL)
http://www.ams.sunysb.edu/~zhliu/
Email
zhliu@ams.stonybrook.edu
INTERESTS
Online and Distributed Algorithm Design, Convex Optimization, Game Theory, Renewable Energy Integration, Cloud Computing, Computer Networks, Big Data
BIOGRAPHY

Zhenhua Liu is currently assistant professor in the Department of Applied Mathematics and Statistics, also affiliated with Department of Computer Science and Smart Energy Technology Cluster, since August 2014. During the year 2014-2015, he is on leave for the ITRI-Rosenfeld Fellowship in the Energy and Environmental Technology Division at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. Dr. Liu received his Ph.D. degree in Computer Science at the California Institute of Technology, where he was co-advised by Prof. Adam Wierman and Prof. Steven Low. Before Caltech, he received an M.S. degree of Computer Science & Technology in 2009 and a B.E. degree of Measurement & control in 2006, both from Tsinghua University with honor, as well as a B.S. degree of Economics from Peking University in 2009.

RESEARCH

Zhenhua Liu's current research interests include sustainable computing and networking systems, cloud platforms for big data applications and energy management, and renewable energy integration. He develops and applies techniques from distributed system, nonlinear optimization, game theory, and online algorithm for these systems. In particular, his research combines rigorous analysis and system design, and goes from theory, to prototype, and eventually to industry to make real impacts. For more information, please refer to http://www.ams.stonybrook.edu/~zhliu/.

AWARDS
Computerworld Honors Laureates for Net-zero Energy Data Center, Best paper award in International Green Computing Conference, Best student paper award in ACM GreenMetrics, IEEE Sustainable Computing Register "Pick of the Month”, Caltech Graduate Fellowship, ITRI-Rosenfeld Postdoctoral Fellowship, Chinese Government Award for Outstanding Students Abroad, Excellent Master Thesis Award from Tsinghua University.
Right Faculty Menu
Faculty
Graduate Students
Staff
Awards
 

Department of Computer Science, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY 11794-2424 

Stony Brook University Home Page     |     CEAS    |     Members Only Area    |     Contact Us

