Professor: Zhiwei Steven Wu
University: Carnegie Mellon University
URL: https://zstevenwu.com/
Description: Home
News
Group
Papers
Teaching
Service
Talks


Steven Wu

Assistant Professor
School of Computer Science
Carnegie Mellon University



Email: zstevenwu [at] cmu.edu

Office: TCS Hall 424

I am an Assistant Professor in the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University, with my primary appointment in the Software and Societal Systems Department (with the Societal Computing program), and affiliated appointments with the Machine Learning Department and the Human-Computer Interaction Institute. I am also affiliated with the CyLab and the Theory Group.

My broad research interests are in algorithms and machine learning. These days I am excited about:

Foundations of responsible AI, with emphasis on privacy, bias, and uncertainty considerations.
Interactive learning, including contextual bandits and reinforcement learning, and its interactions with causal inference and econometrics.
Economic aspects of machine learning, with a focus on learning in multi-agent settings.
My research has been generously supported by the National Science Foundation (NSF) (including an NSF CAREER Award), the Okawa Foundation, CMU’s Block Center for Technology and Society, an Amazon Research Award, a Google Faculty Research Award, J.P. Morgan Faculty Awards, Meta Research awards, a Mozilla Research Grant, Apple, and Cisco Research.

For more details, please see my Papers and CV

NEWS

Jan 2024

I am teaching a new course this spring semester: 17757: Modern Techniques in Uncertainty Quantification.

Dec 2023

One paper accepted at SIGMETRICS 2024 and two papers accepted at SaTML 2024:

Strategyproof Decision-Making in Panel Data Settings and Beyond
Improved Differentially Private Regression via Gradient Boosting
Fair Federated Learning via Bounded Group Loss

Sep 2023

Seven papers accepted at NeurIPS 2023:

Strategic apple tasting
Meta-Learning for adversarial bandits
Adaptive principal component regression
On the sublinear regret of GP-UCB
Adaptive privacy composition for accuracy-first mechanisms
Scalable membership inference attacks via quantile regression
Learning shared safety constraints from multi-task demonstrations

June 2023

Our paper Counterfactual Prediction Under Outcome Measurement Error received a Best Paper Award at FAccT 2023!

March 2023

Our CMU team ("puffle") led by Ken Liu won the 1st place at the U.S. Privacy-Enhancing Technologies (PETs) Prize Challenge, Pandemic Forecasting Track (USD $100,000). See coverage by the White House, UK Government, Summit for Democracy, DrivenData, NSF, and CMU news.

March 2023

Our paper Confidence-ranked reconstruction of census microdata from published statistics is now published in PNAS.

© 2020 STEVEN WU. Designed by VXG.
Back to Top

