Professor: Zhu Zhang
University: Iowa State University
URL: https://www.cs.iastate.edu/people/zhu-drew-zhang
Description: Skip to main content
ISU Index Menu
iastate.edu
Index
ISU Quick Links Menu
Directory
Maps
Safety
Sign Ons
Department of Computer Science
Search form
Search
 
Main menu
Main Menu
HOME
FUTURE STUDENTS
CURRENT STUDENTS
+
PEOPLE
+
RESEARCH
SUPPORT CS
ABOUT
+
Zhu (Drew) Zhang
Affiliated Faculty
People
Graduate Faculty in Computer Science, Courtesy Associate Professor
Bio

Professor Zhang is a passionate researcher, teacher, and practitioner in the areas of big data analytics and artificial intelligence. His intellectual aspiration is to discover valuable knowledge and intelligence from massive amount of data available in various structures, genres and streams. In particular, his research focuses on computational models for textual data and their applications in various domains (e.g., business and healthcare).

In teaching business analytics and data management related courses, he enjoys sharing with his students real-world experience from leading IT companies such as IBM, Microsoft, and Google.

 

Academic History

PH.D., Information and Computer Science, University of Michigan, 2005

 

Expertise
Artificial intelligence
Big data analytics
Data/text/web mining

 

Awards

Schulze Award 2015

 

Selected Publications

 

Zhang, Z., Guo, C.+, and Goes, P. (2013) "Product Comparison Networks for Competitive Analysis of Online Word-Of-Mouth", ACM Transactions on Management Information Systems, 3 (4):20. 
Zhang, Z., Li, X., and Chen Y. (2012) "Deciphering “Word”-of-Mouth in Social Media: Text-based Metrics of Consumer Reviews", ACM Transactions on Management Information Systems, 3 (1):5. 
Abbasi, A.+, Zhang, Z., Zimbra, D., Chen, H., and Nunamaker, J. (2010) "Detecting Fake Websites: the Contribution of Statistical Learning Theory", MIS Quarterly, 34 (2)
Zhang, Z. and Wetherbe, J. (2015) "Data Analytics Help Entrepreneurs Decide Where to Boldly Go", Entrepreneur and Innovation Exchange,
Area of Expertise: 
Natural Language Processing
Information Retrieval
Machine Learning
Contact
Email: zhuzhang@iastate.edu
515-294-7433
Homepage
Tags: Courtesy Facultynatural language processingdata-text-web miningbusiness intelligenceapplied machine learning

College of Liberal Arts and Sciences

 Internal

Department of Computer Science
226 Atanasoff Hall
2434 Osborn Dr
Ames, IA 50011-1090
Phone (515) 294-4377


Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Site Index
Site map

Copyright © 2024
Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved.

Non-discrimination Policy
Privacy Policy
Digital Access & Accessibility

