Professor: Zoran Obradovic
University: Temple University
URL: http://www.dabi.temple.edu/~zoran
Description: College of Science and Technology
Center for Data Analytics
and Biomedical Informatics
Search
Home
People
Research
News
Colloquia & Events
Contact & Location
I.D. Predictors
Zoran Obradovic
Home » Zoran Obradovic
Profile
Research
Publications
Teaching
Lab
Heritage
ZORAN OBRADOVIC

Laura H. Carnell Professor of Data Analytics,
Director, Center for Data Analytics and Biomedical Informatics,
Professor, Statistics, Operations and Data Science Department, Fox School of Business (secondary appointment),
Temple University

Research areas
Data science
Machine learning
Healthcare informatics
Complex systems
Topics
Big data
Data fusion
Spatial and temporal data
Missing and noisy observations
Applications
Social networks
Sensor networks
Healthcare management
Earth science
Profile

Zoran Obradovic is a Distinguished Professor and a Center director at Temple University, an Academician at the Academia Europaea (the Academy of Europe) and a Foreign Academician at the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. He mentored about 50 postdoctoral fellows and Ph.D. students, many of whom have independent research careers at academic institutions (e.g. Northeastern Univ., Ohio State Univ,) and industrial research labs (e.g. Amazon, eBay, Facebook, Hitachi Big Data, IBM T.J.Watson, Microsoft, Yahoo Labs, Uber, Verizon Big Data, Spotify). Zoran is the editor-in-chief of the Big Data journal and the steering committee chair for the SIAM Data Mining conference. He is also an editorial board member of 13 journals and was the general chair, program chair, or track chair for 11 international conferences. His research interests include data science and complex networks in decision support systems addressing challenges related to big, heterogeneous, spatial, and temporal data analytics motivated by applications in healthcare management, power systems, earth, and social sciences. His studies were funded by AFRL, DARPA, DOE, KAUST, NIH, NSF, ONR, PA Department of Health, US Army ERDC, US Army Research Labs, and industry. He published about 450 articles and is cited more than 33,000 times (H-index 68).

Recruitment Status

Accepting/supporting highly qualified and motivated Ph.D. students, postdoctoral associates, and visiting scholars with research interests related to developing effective data science/machine learning methods and challenging knowledge discovery applications in healthcare, science, engineering and business.

Bio/CV
NSF
NIH
Projects
Big Data	Health Sciences	Social Sciences	Environmental Sciences	Other Domains
Advanced Learning for Energy Risk Tracking (ALERT) (NSF)
Advanced GeoAI for Terrain Analytics in Cold Regions (US Army Corps of Engineers ERDC)
Advanced Terrain Analytics to Support Tactical Scale Planning and Operations over Varied Environment (US Army Corps of Engineers ERDC)
Testing and Evaluation for Soldier-Device Teaming Compatibility, Vulnerability, and Durability in Emergent Situations (US Army Research Laboratory)
Big Data Analysis of Synchrophasor Data (DOE)
Distributed Machine Learning for Understanding News (XSEDE )   
Modeling Temporal Dynamics of User Behavior for Improved Advertising (Verizon Media)
Assessing Influence of News Articles on Emerging Events (NSF)
US-Serbia and West Balkan Data Science Workshop (NSF)
Big Data Spokes: Smart Grids Big Data (NSF)
Acquisition on a Flexible High-Performance Computing System for Data and Compute-Driven Scientific Discovery (NSF)
Structured Regression in Complex Networks by Fusion of Qualitative Knowledge and Big Data (Office of Naval Research)
BIGDATA: Multi-level Predictive Analytics & Motif Discovery Across Massive Dynamic Spatio-Temporal Networks in Complex Socio-Technical Systems: An Organizational Genetics Approach (National Science Foundation)
Prospective Analysis of Large and Complex Partially Observed Temporal Social Networks (DARPA)
Recognition
Elected Fellow of the Asia-Pacific Artificial Intelligence Association, Nov. 2021.
The best student paper award, the 16th International Conference on Artificial Intelligence Applications and Innovations (AIAI), 2020
The best paper award, the Sixth IEEE International Conference on Healthcare Informatics (ICHI 2018).
Elected Member at the Academia Europaea (the Academy of Europe), 2015.
Elected Foreign Member at the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, 2015.
Appointed Adjunct Professor, School of Medicine, University of Belgrade, 2015.
Appointed L.H. Carnell Professor of Data Analytics, Temple University, 2013.
Appointed Professor (secondary appointment) Statistics, Operations and Data Science Department, Fox School of Business, Temple University, 2013.
Appointed Adjunct Professor, Faculty of Organizational Sciences, University of Belgrade, 2012.
Temple University Faculty Research Award, April 2009.
College of Science and Technology Faculty Research Excellence Award, Nov. 2008.
Team leader for the best rated model of intrinsically disordered protein regions at the seventh critical assessments of structure prediction experiments (CASP 7), Nov. 26-30, 2006.
Team leader for the best predictor in protein disorder category at fifth and the sixth critical assessments of structure prediction experiments (CASP 5 and CASP 6), 2002 and 2004.
Researcher of the Year for College of Engineering and Architecture, Annual Convocation, Washington State University, April 11, 2000.
Temple
University

Copyright 2020, Temple University. All rights reserved.
Design: Ameen Abdel Hai | Blink.mk

Center for Data Analytics and Biomedical Informatics
Temple University

386 SERC, 1925 N. 12th St.
Philadelphia, PA 19122, USA

(215) 204-3651
(215) 204-5082
dabi@temple.edu
Home
People
Research
News
Colloquia & Events
Contact & Location
I.D. Predictors

